Dagobah.

- Strong this planet is with the Force.
- It is one of the purest places in the galaxy.
 ―Yoda and the spirit of Qui-Gon Jinn.

Dagobah was a remote, unexplored planet in the Dagobah system, and one of the
purest places in the galaxy within the Force. A remote world of swamps and
forests, it served as a refuge for Jedi Grand Master Yoda during his exile after
the destruction of the Jedi Order. Luke Skywalker received advanced training in
the ways of the Force under Jedi Master Yoda on Dagobah, and it was later the
place of Yoda's death and transformation into the Force.

Description.

- Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe for droids.
 ―Luke Skywalker, to R2-D2.

The swamp-covered surface of Dagobah

Dagobah was a planet located in the Sluis sector of the Outer Rim Territories.
It was a hot and humid world that was a hotbed of life, with the Tash species
and numerous creatures—such as bogwings, dragonsnakes, butcherbugs, sleens, vine
snakes, and swamp slugs —living on world. Jedi Master Yoda would also make a
home for himself on Dagobah during his exile. Dagobah was a mysterious, mist-
shrouded, swampy planet, mostly covered in swamps and bogs, interspersed with
countless shallow lakes and lagoons and multiple living caves. The continental
and oceanic crusts of Dagobah were only vaguely defined, and there was little in
the way of volcanic activity or earthquakes. Examples of flora included the
lahdia plant, the yoghurt plant, gnarltree, and yarum seed. The planet was
devoid of any cities.

Among the purest locations in the entire galaxy within the energy field known as
the Force, it shared a mysterious time -related quality with such locales as
Mortis and Ahch-To. The Cave of Evil was a vergence aligned with the dark side
of the Force on Dagobah. The Cave was able to expand its influence across
Dagobah until Yoda's arrival, which created a powerful presence in the light
side of the Force that kept the Cave in check. As such, during the Imperial Era,
Dagobah's ecosystem saw balance until Yoda's passing, which the Cave took
advantage of to spread its darkness across Dagobah once more.

Dagobah had two seasons, a dry season and a wet season. During the peak of the
long dry season (over half an orbit after the rains end) the uplands become too
hot for most lifeforms to survive, necessitating any that live there to migrate
to the lower lands. Beneath the rapidly leafing canopies of the gnarltrees that
emerge from the receding green and thick waters, the once-inundated lowlands
revert back to a marshy swamp once again. As the air grows more humid, the gray
overcast clouds return and before another quarter orbit passes the planet is far
enough away from its sun that the dry season ends and the rains return, again
flooding the lowlands and covering the trees in water, making the uplands
habitable once more.

History.

Republic Era.

- But again, research. And in an academic paper written during
- , I found a description of a world very strong in the Force.
 ―The Archivist.

During the High Republic Era, an academic paper was written that described
Dagobah as a world strong in the Force.

Yoda traveled to Dagobah in 19 BBY at the behest of Qui-Gon Jinn.

During the Republic Era, Halka Four-Den Alpha Team was dispatched to the planet
Dagobah in order to chart and map the extending borders of the Galactic Republic
and learn more about it flora and fauna. After three months, Four-Den and her
Alpha Team were overwhelmed by diseases, dangerous wildlife, and fast-growing
plants. No trace of the team was discovered.

Near the end of the Clone Wars, Jedi Grand Master Yoda traveled to the planet
Dagobah after hearing the voice of deceased Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn. He
ventured into the swamp, where he communed with Jinn, who appeared manifested as
a group of fireflies. He told Yoda of how to communicate with the living after
death through the connection between the Living Force and the Cosmic Force.
Then, Yoda entered a cave, where he saw a vision of the Jedi fighting the clones
and then the mysterious Sith Lord.

Imperial Era.

Yoda's exile.

- Into exile I must go. Failed, I have.
 ―Yoda, to Bail Organa.

Yoda lived the planet Dagobah for the rest of his life.

After his failure to defeat the Sith Lord Darth Sidious following the formation
of the Galactic Empire, Yoda exiled himself to Dagobah. Using an E3-standard
starship lifeboat, he began his exile, where he continued his studies of the
Force. The lifeboat served as Yoda's initial shelter but it started to degrade
within a year due to Dagobah's swampy environment. As the first shelter was
slowly consumed by the swamp, Yoda built a new home for himself. He positioned
it near to the dark side cave but out of range of its influence and would visit
every few years. However, the Dagobah wet season created a need for the Jedi
Master to regularly relocate to the planet's highlands for the duration.

At some point, former Sava Madelin Sun arrived on Dagobah in search of Yoda.
After saving her from a monster, Yoda used the Force to lead Sun into the dark
cave. While inside, she saw visions which dissuaded her from looking for him.
She then left the planet as Yoda watched from afar.

Training ground of Luke Skywalker.

- You will go to the Dagobah system. There you will learn from Yoda, the Jedi
  Master who instructed me.
 ―Obi-Wan Kenobi, to Luke Skywalker.

Traveling to Dagobah, Skywalker sought out Grand Master Yoda in order to
complete his Jedi training.

Years later, Luke Skywalker of the Alliance to Restore the Republic traveled to
Dagobah under the direction of late Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi in hopes of
finding Yoda and being trained in the ways of the Jedi Order. Arriving with his
astromech R2-D2, Skywalker crashed into a bog upon landing and happened upon the
Jedi, though he was unaware it was, in fact, Yoda at the time. The old master
took Skywalker back to his hut for dinner, where he revealed his true identity
to Skywalker. Initially reluctant to train Skywalker due to his age and lack of
patience, Yoda was eventually convinced to teach him by the Force spirit of
Kenobi.

One night during Skywalker's training, an Imperial probe droid from Project
Swarm arrived on planet. The droid's operator, Maela, initially believed there
was no reason to look further into the planet during the unit's patrol until she
spotted Skywalker's X-wing in the swamp. Although she realized the outline of
what she saw resembled an X-wing, she had realized the cruelty of the Empire
after witnessing the aftermath of the Battle of Hoth, so she deleted the footage
before moving on to her next droid.

During his training, Skywalker entered the Cave of Evil and confronted a vision
of Darth Vader, who he struck down, only to see his own face in Vader's mask.
Later, Skywalker ended his training early, however, once he sensed his friends
Han Solo and Leia Organa were in danger. Although Yoda and Kenobi attempted to
reason with Skywalker to stay, the student left the planet, promising to return
and finish his training.

He would keep his word, and after learning Vader was his father during their
duel on Cloud City, saving Leia and Chewbacca from Vader on Cloud City, and
rescuing Solo from Jabba the Hutt on Tatooine, he would return to Dagobah to
complete his Jedi training. Upon arriving, he found Yoda sick and dying, who
told him that his training was complete, but all he had to do was confront Vader
one last time, and the old master became one with the Force. The ghost of Kenobi
then revealed to Skywalker the truth that Leia was, in fact, a Skywalker and
Luke's sister before Luke left the planet to confront Vader and the Emperor in
hopes of turning Vader back to the light side. The Cave of Evil, meanwhile, took
advantage of Yoda's death to once again spread its power across Dagobah.

New Republic Era.

- The cave is power. And darkness. And you will enter.
- What's in there?
- Only what you've been too weak to bury.
 ―Snoke and Kylo Ren.

Ren dueling the vision of Skywalker.

Sometime after the skirmish on the Minemoon, Kylo Ren, nephew of Luke Skywalker,
along with his master and Supreme Leader of the First Order, Snoke, came to
Dagobah in order to face Ren's darkest fears. In the Cave of Evil, he
experienced a vision of his uncle Luke, whom he dueled and killed, and a vision
of his parents Leia and Han. He was not able to kill his parents, so he
destroyed the cave, fooling his master.

By 34 ABY, herbs from Dagobah had made their way to Oga's Cantina on Batuu,
where they became a popular ingredient in the so-called Dagobah Slug Slinger
alcoholic beverage. During or after 34 ABY, the freighter Millennium Falcon
landed on Dagobah. There, the Wookiee crewmember Chewbacca attempted to take
some time to himself to rest aboard the ship, only for the droids BB-8 and R2-D2
—the very same droid who had accompanied Luke Skywalker to Dagobah —discovered a
Kowakian monkey-lizard aboard the ship.

Inhabitants.

Dagobah was the homeworld of the Tash species, who grew herbs. Jedi Grand Master
Yoda made his way to Dagobah and adopted it as his homeworld during the Imperial
Era. Another being of sorts on Dagobah was the so-called Cave of Evil, a living
Force vergence strong in the dark side, but confined to its place on the planet.

Behind the scenes.

- A small escape pod hurls toward the swamp planet and disappears in the mist.
  The pod has landed, and YODA descends the ramp, surveying the unfamiliar
  terrain.
 ―Description of Dagobah's deleted scene from Episode III.

Dagobah first appeared in the 1980 film Star Wars : Episode V The Empire Strikes
Back, the second installment of the Star Wars original trilogy.

Slated to appear in one scene of the 2005 film, Star Wars : Episode III Revenge
of the Sith, the planet was cut from the final film, leaving it for the DVD
release. The scene featured how Yoda started his exile. George Lucas removed the
scene so that the film would not have "too many endings, " despite producer Rick
McCallum 's wishes.

In the 2016 reference book Star Wars: Complete Locations, an image of Dagobah
was mistakenly used in the planet profile of Kashyyyk. The book also alleges
that no civilization existed on Dagobah, but Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge later
recanonized the Tash species.

The Kwazel Maw seen in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars episode " Bombad Jedi " was
based off of an unused design by Ralph McQuarrie for a swamp slug creature on
Dagobah.

There is a long-running fan debate about how long Luke Skywalker trained on
Dagobah. This debate was jokingly referenced in "The Lost Boy, " a story told by
Vaneé, when Ben Solo asked if Skywalker trained for 20 minutes on Dagobah.

Lucas' vision for Dagobah started out as a swampy and misty planet that would be
similar to the setting of the Sherlock Holmes novel The Hound of the
Baskervilles, which was in Dartmoor, England.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back

LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales — " Flight of the Falcon " (In flashback(s))

LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales — " Gambit on Geonosis " (In flashback(s))

LEGO Star Wars: Rise of the Rebellion

Fortnite (Mentioned only)

Happy Color

" The Swamp Situation " — LEGO Star Wars 47

" The Dragonsnake Saves R2-D2 " — From a Certain Point of View: The Empire
Strikes Back (and audiobook )

The LEGO Star Wars Holiday Special

LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales (Mentioned only)

" The Ghost of Good " — LEGO Star Wars 77

LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga

LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season — " Twas the Night Before Life Day "

LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season — " 25 Years "

" The Rogue Droid " — LEGO Star Wars 127

" A Grievous Getaway " — LEGO Star Wars 133 (Mentioned only)

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Star Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book

LEGO Star Wars (Promotional/Gift Set: 4002019 Christmas X-Wing )

Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " The Elder " (Video clip only)

20 Eerie Easter Eggs from LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales on StarWars. com (
backup link )

Visions Revisited: 5 Highlights from "Screecher's Reach" on StarWars. com (
backup link )

"Screecher's Reach" Episode Guide | Star Wars Visions Volume 2 on StarWars. com
( backup link ) (Picture only)

LEGO Star Wars 102 (Free Gift) (Picture only)

"The Bird of Paradise" Episode Guide | Star Wars: Visions Volume 3 on StarWars.
com ( backup link )

Notes and references.

↑ 1. 0 1. 1 1. 2 1. 3 1. 4 Ultimate Star Wars

↑ Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi

↑ Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide

↑ 4. 00 4. 01 4. 02 4. 03 4. 04 4. 05 4. 06 4. 07 4. 08 4. 09 4. 10 4. 11 4. 12
4. 13 4. 14 4. 15 4. 16 4. 17 4. 18 4. 19 4. 20 4. 21 Star Wars : Episode V The
Empire Strikes Back

↑ Star Wars: The Force Awakens Beginner Game

↑ 6. 0 6. 1 6. 2 6. 3 6. 4 Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know

↑ 7. 0 7. 1 7. 2 7. 3 Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon 20 Guide to the
Galaxy: Dagobah — The Cave of Evil

↑ 8. 0 8. 1 8. 2 8. 3 8. 4 8. 5 8. 6 8. 7 Nexus of Power

↑ 9. 00 9. 01 9. 02 9. 03 9. 04 9. 05 9. 06 9. 07 9. 08 9. 09 Star Wars:
Complete Locations

↑ 10. 0 10. 1 10. 2 Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia

↑ 11. 0 11. 1 " There is Another " — From a Certain Point of View

↑ 12. 0 12. 1 12. 2 " The Light That Falls " — From a Certain Point of View:
Return of the Jedi

↑ 13. 0 13. 1 13. 2 13. 3 13. 4 Star Wars: Journey Through Space

↑ 14. 0 14. 1 14. 2 14. 3 14. 4 14. 5 Star Wars : Galaxy's Edge — Oga's Cantina
has official backstory elements that, though not directly published for the
public, are officially canon per the location's show guides and employees, and
the details can be obtained verbally from cast members working the store.

↑ The Empire Strikes Back: A Collector's Classic Board Book

↑ 16. 0 16. 1 Star Wars: Galactic Atlas

↑ The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?

↑ 18. 0 18. 1 18. 2 18. 3 Star Wars: The Clone Wars — " Voices "

↑ The Trial of Dagobah — Age of Rebellion Special 1

↑ Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary

↑ " Vergence " — From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back

↑ 22. 0 22. 1 " The Light That Falls " — From a Certain Point of View: Return of
the Jedi

↑ 23. 0 23. 1 23. 2 Crimson Reign 3

↑ 24. 0 24. 1 Star Wars : Episode III Revenge of the Sith

↑ Ultimate Star Wars

↑ 26. 0 26. 1 26. 2 " Vergence " — From a Certain Point of View: The Empire
Strikes Back

↑ 27. 0 27. 1 " There is Another " — From a Certain Point of View

↑ 28. 0 28. 1 " Eyes of the Empire " — From a Certain Point of View: The Empire
Strikes Back

↑ Star Wars : Episode VI Return of the Jedi

↑ 30. 0 30. 1 Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke 1

↑ Star Wars: Timelines dates the events of Star Wars : Galaxy's Edge to 34 ABY.

↑ " Who's Making That Noise in The Millennium Falcon? ! " takes place after the
events of Star Wars : Episode VIII The Last Jedi, dated to 34 ABY per Star Wars:
Timelines.

↑ 33. 0 33. 1 Star Wars: Droid Diaries — " Who's Making That Noise in The
Millennium Falcon? ! "

↑ Star Wars : Episode III Revenge of the Sith Illustrated Screenplay

↑ "Bombad Jedi" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars on StarWars. com ( backup link )

↑ 20 Eerie Easter Eggs from LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales on StarWars. com (
backup link )

↑ LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales

↑ Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back : The 40th Anniversary Special Edition

External links.

Dagobah on Wikipedia

Dagobah on the Disney Wiki

Related categories:

Battles of Dagobah

Creatures of Dagobah

Dagobah locations

Dagobah residents

Plants of Dagobah

Battles of Dagobah

Creatures of Dagobah

Dagobah locations

Dagobah residents

Plants of Dagobah
