Droid.

- . They are
- , built by organics, to whom they are
- . This rule is
- , no matter the purpose for which the droid is used or its relationship to the
  organics who use it. Droids are everywhere. Some are treated as
- . Some are more…
- . Droids can be
- .
- .
- .
- . Droids tell the organics where to go. Build their homes. Give them the
  energy their society requires. Droids are everywhere. And everywhere, they are
- . Everywhere, they serve.
 ―The Scourge.

A data storage droid (D-O), power droid, and medical droid (AZI-3)

Droids, less commonly known as robots and automatons, were mechanical beings
that possessed artificial intelligence. They were used in a variety of roles and
environments, often those considered too menial or too dangerous for other
species, but also in fields that required extensive specialization and
knowledge.

History.

- Never underestimate a droid.
 ―Leia Organa, to Rey.

The earliest origins of droids were lost to history, and, by the time of the New
Republic, it was unknown exactly when the first droid was created, though some
historians, only taking into account the more advanced worlds, placed the origin
of the first droids to approximately 30, 000 years before the Battle of Yavin.
Nevertheless, for millennia, droids served in galactic society alongside organic
beings. According to the B1-series battle droid author R0-GR, the bond between
organic and mechanical lifeforms were tenuous with the former fearing that
droids would rise up against their masters. Though several droid revolts took
place, Roger claimed that an "unspoken understanding" between human and droid
cultures kept everyone working on the same team throughout the ages.

Droids existed as far back as the earliest days of the Jedi Order, which was
founded over 25, 000 years before the Clone Wars. One such ancient droid,
Professor Huyang, served the Jedi for several millennia. As a result of this
ancient coexistence with living beings, the galaxy often had an uneven
relationship between organics and mechanicals. Records of uprisings and clashes
between droids and their organic overlords became increasingly common as droids
slowly became more important in galactic society. During the High Republic Era,
the Nihil welcomed droids into their ranks. They also designed blaredroids and
scav droids as weapons.

During the Clone Wars, the Confederacy deployed a massive army of various
battle-droid models. The extensive use of droids in combat led to an increase in
anti-droid sentiment.

During the pan-galactic conflict known as the Clone Wars, the Confederacy of
Independent Systems used a variety of battle droids in its fight against the
Galactic Republic. This mass use of droids in combat cemented the idea of the
"droid as an existential threat to biological life" narrative in the minds of
the Republic. Droids were not utilized by the Chiss Ascendancy by the time of
the Clone Wars. Ultimately, the Republic won the war and was replaced by an
authoritarian Galactic Empire. Under the new regime, many people in the galaxy
were afraid or otherwise distrustful of droids, due to their bad memories of the
conflict.

The Galactic Empire fostered anti-droid sentiment and treated droids as
property. Many sentients continued the Clone Wars policies of wiping droids'
memories, fitting them with restraining bolts, and curtailing their movements.
Several establishments also excluded droids. Further, anti-droid sentiment
adversely affected the labor fields dedicated to droid design and manufacture,
which forced those specialized in those fields—such as Maela's mother —to begin
working in Imperial droid factories in order to maintain a job. Otherwise, there
were simply not enough openings in the market for those skills. After the Clone
Wars, the Imperial Senate also passed a law prohibiting programming that would
allow for the harming of organics in the droids used by the Empire. Thus, with
both public opinion and the law against it, battle droid production fell
sharply. However, this law was bypassed by Arakyd Industries in conjunction with
the Imperial Military by marketing their KX-series droids as " security droids
".

The illegal sport of droid-fighting was practiced on Nal Hutta and in the Lodge,
where Clone Wars-survivor Ralakili ran the fighting pits due to his hate of
droids. The Rebel Alliance, which opposed the Empire, treated droids not as
property but as sentient beings. Several droids were encouraged by the Rebellion
and carried out acts of resistance such as bypassing repressive programming,
deactivating restraining bolts, and demanding freedom. The Rebellion's
acceptance of droids as equals was continued by the New Republic and Resistance.
Support Droids were units that existed at some stage of galactic history that
provided various assistant roles in battle.

Definition.

Mechanical "beings".

- Droids are not good or bad. They are neutral reflections of those who imprint
  them.
 ― Kuiil.

Various droid models existed for many roles.

Droids were mechanical constructs designed to assist organic lifeforms in
various tasks. Depending on the nature of the work they performed, they
possessed various degrees of artificial intelligence. Most droids had hard-coded
restrictions against harming organics. Notable exceptions included security
droids and assassin droids. It was the nature of less complex droids to assume
that if a human acted as if they belonged somewhere, then that human did belong
there.

Droids came in all sizes and shapes, and many of them resembled humanoid
organics, possessing an upright posture, two arms, two legs, hands, feet, one
thorax, a neck, and a head. The B1 battle droids were designed to resemble their
insectoid Geonosian creators. Likewise, the Colicoids designed the three- legged
droidekas in their image. Some droids, like the LOM-series unit, were made to
resemble the organics they served.

Contrary to organics, who were born and healed slowly, droids were easily built
en masse, were less fragile, and could be repaired easily. They also did not
have to learn skills (such as calculation abilities), as they were directly
programmed with them. Most droids possessed a form of self-awareness, with
advanced models even having emotions such as fear for their existence. Droids
did not need to breathe, eat or drink. They were capable of surviving in a
vacuum and underwater, and were immune to cosmic radiation, all poisons, toxins
and diseases. They did not need to sleep, although they could be deactivated as
a form of sleep and had occasional maintenance cycles.

Not "alive" in an organic sense.

- An actual
- for them, I imagine. Much
- to be a
- . Wipe our memory banks, reprogram us, it's all the same. But imagine being a
  creature of
- …
- , nearly
- in battle… and having the most vital parts of your
- replaced by
- … only to find yourself
- of your
- ? I suppose we should be grateful, eh?
 ―A protocol droid , after learning of Darth Vader's efforts to take control
 over the cybernetic warriors of the M.A.R. Corps.

0-0-0 theorized that a special engine powered by human blood could connect a
droid to the Force.

Droids were broadly considered not to be alive. They could not be detected by
scanners designed to detect the presence of life-forms. Similarly, Droids could
not access the Force, an energy field that connected all living things in the
galaxy. Additionally, not being alive, droids could not be sensed in the Force,
though a skilled Jedi might sense their presence through the empty spots they
left in the Force. However, R0-GR nonetheless referred to droids as mechanical
life-forms and artificial lives. The reprogrammed protocol unit Triple-Zero,
theorized that the Force might flow through a droid equipped with a special
engine driven by human blood.

They could not die in a traditional sense, though they could be destroyed. If
enough of the droid survived, they could be repaired, however. Droids were
usually completely obedient and precise, and normally followed their
proprietors' orders. However, unlike mere machines or primitive computers,
droids were capable of developing unique personalities by gathering experiences.
They could form friendships, and experience emotions such as happiness, pain,
and sadness. To avoid that, most droid owners performed regular memory wipes on
their properties. However, memory wipes were not always perfect, occasionally
leaving droids with vague recollections.

The droid rights debate.

Even so, some droids were emancipated. Movements for droid rights existed
throughout the galaxy, promoting equality between droids and other sentient
beings, with droids such as L3-37 believing strongly in this cause.

Characteristics.

- This is
- ! The
- will not stand for—
- ! You'll all be punished! Mark my words!
- Yes, yes, let's just overwrite that subroutine, shall we?
- Ah. Apologies… I was required by my programing to
- you.
- No worries at all.
 ―A Rebel Alliance protocol droid encounters the Imperial droid ZED-6-7.

The neural core was considered the soul of a droid. Droids were considered not
to be very tasty by the nightwatcher worms, a non-sentient predatory species
native to the planet Jakku. As a result, the BB-series astromech droid BB-8 was
not eaten by a nightwatcher worm following his escape from the First Order 's
attack on Tuanul.

Classes of droids.

Overview.

- For easy identification, droids are traditionally divided into five classes
  based on their specifications. (Frankly, I think that lumping us together like
  this is a little rude. I assume this list was developed by a human with zero
  class.)
 ― R0-GR.

L3-37 was a custom, self-made droid from many different droid parts

Droids could be entrusted with a multitude of tasks, ranging from running
elementary diagnostics to performing complicated medical procedures, or sending
communications to flying starships. Depending on their technology, skills, and
purpose, droids were grouped into five "classes, " also called "degrees. "

First class droids.

The first class was made up of droids skilled in mathematical, physical, and
medical sciences. Examples included the JN-66 analysis droid, the 2-1B surgical
droid, the midwife droid, the DD-13 tripedal medical droid, and the GH-7 series
medical assistance droid.

Second class droids.

Droids of the second class were skilled in engineering and technical sciences.
Examples included the DUM-series pit droid, the PLNK-series power droid, and the
WED-15 Septoid Treadwell.

Third class droids.

B1-series battle droids were fourth class droids

Third class droids were skilled in social sciences and service functions.
Examples included the CZ secretary droid, the LEP-series service droid, the FA-5
valet droid, and the BD-3000 luxury droid.

Fourth class droids.

Droids of the fourth class were skilled in military and security functions.
Examples included the GU-series Guardian police droid, the KX-series security
droid, and the B1-series battle droid.

Fifth class droids.

Fifth class droids were programmed for manual labor and intensive jobs that did
not require a high level of intelligence. Examples included the GNK-series power
droid, the MSE-6 series repair droid, the IW-37 pincer loader droid, the R-H029
sifter droid, the PK-series worker droid, and the UX-53 Autopolisher MK. II
Droid.

Behind the scenes.

- Well, the droids were there to serve. Obviously droids are servants of man.
  They do as they are commanded and all that kind of stuff but at the same time
  I love droids, they're my favorite people. I didn't want them to be cold
  robots. Even the robots in
- are very friendly. They're not malevolent. In
- I really wanted to get into the robots and their problems in life; a little
  equal time for robots, who have taken a lot of shit over the years and have
  never really had a chance to prove themselves.
- Star Wars
- A New Hope
 ―George Lucas, referring to Star Wars : Episode IV A New Hope.

The word droid was stylized as ' droid in the novelization of Star Wars: A New
Hope and other early Star Wars Legends material.

In 1977, during an interview regarding the original trilogy film Star Wars :
Episode IV A New Hope, George Lucas stated that droids were designed to serve
sentients. However, droids were Lucas' favorite people, and the filmmaker did
not want droids to be cold or malevolent, just like how the robots in THX 1138
were "very friendly. " On the other hand, he did not intend droids to be
sentient themselves: he stated that, droids, even though some of them like C-3PO
and R2-D2 are very human in nature, had no soul, only programmed to act like
human beings.

Lucas wanted to focus on droids and their issues in life, giving them equal
screentime since they had endured much suffering over the years and had little
to no opportunities to prove themselves. As with Akira Kurosawa's film The
Hidden Fortress, which presents two peasants traveling with a princess and a
general, A New Hope follows the points of view of two lowly beings—the droids
R2-D2 and C-3PO.

Trademark.

George Lucas holds a trademark on the term "droid. " The miniature 'mech combat
wargame BattleTech was originally released under the name BattleDroids, but was
renamed due to trademark issues with Lucasfilm.

Pixar Animation Studios ' film The Incredibles ( 2004 ) contains a reference to
Lucasfilm's droid with the large weapon of destruction, the Omnidroid; an
apparently unrelated killer droid of the same name also appears in Star Wars
Galaxies. The credits of the film give a nod to Lucasfilm.

From Mickey News (25 November 2004):

The term "Droid" has been licensed by Verizon Wireless for their line of
smartphones based on the Android operating system. Motorola's late-2009 Google
Android-based cell phone is called the Droid, and this line of phone has been
expanded to include other Android-based phones released under Verizon. The term
is used under license from Lucasfilm.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure

Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " T0-B1 "

Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " Lop & Ochō " (Video clip only)

Notes and references.

External links.

Droid on Wikipedia

Related categories:

Droid models

Individual droids

Droid models

Individual droids
