Ewok.

- They're kind of cute.
- Did you not see them attacking the stormtroopers? Those little guys are
  brutal.
- Still cute.
 ―Luke Skywalker and Han Solo.

Ewoks were a diminutive primitive species of furry bipeds native to the forest
moon of Endor. They were most notable for helping the Rebel Alliance defeat the
forces of the Galactic Empire at the Battle of Endor, allowing the shield
generator there to be destroyed, and in turn, the DS-2 Death Star II Mobile
Battle Station.

Ewoks were individuals that stood about one meter tall. They used spears,
slings, and knives as weapons; they also used hang gliders as vehicles. Although
skilled in forest survival and the construction of primitive technology, the
Ewoks had yet to progress past stone-level technology when discovered by the
Empire. They were quick learners, however, when exposed to advanced technology
with simple mechanical processes and concepts.

Biology and appearance.

- The Ewoks are fierce warriors. The top of the food chain on a savage
  planet!""Okay, first of all, they live on a moon, not a planet. Second of all—
 ―A Whill and another Whill.

Ewoks were sentient humanoids, averaging about one meter in height. Omnivorous,
they were covered in fur from head to toe, with brown and black as the most
common colors. Most Ewoks had solid-colored fur, though a few sported stripes.
Ewoks had large, bright eyes, small humanoid noses, and hands that possessed two
fingers and an opposable thumb. Despite their small size, Ewoks were physically
strong enough to overpower combat-trained humans. Additionally, they are also
able to see in the dark and can use their keen senses to locate enemies that are
not immediately visible.

History.

Liberating their home.

- Well, short help is better than no help at all.
 ―Han Solo reluctantly accepts the Ewoks' help in the Battle of Endor.

Wicket W. Warrick meets Princess Leia Organa on Endor

When the Galactic Empire began operations on the moon of Endor with an
occupation, they razed an Ewok village to erect a shield generator complex,
forcing the few that survived to a close neighboring village —the Bright Tree
Village —led by Chief Chirpa. Princess Leia Organa, part of a Rebel strike team,
met and befriended Wicket W. Warrick. After meeting him, Organa and Warrick saw
a pair of Imperial stormtroopers confronting two other Ewoks, but the Rebel
princess and Ewok were able to defeat the two soldiers.

Organa was taken back to the Ewok village as a guest. Meanwhile, however,
another group of Ewoks captured her fellow rebels, Luke Skywalker, Chewbacca,
Han Solo, R2-D2, and C-3PO. When these Ewoks saw the protocol droid C-3PO, they
identified him as the Golden One who they believed had brought balance to Endor
millennia before. Despite Wicket and Organa's protests, the Ewok shaman Logray
attempted to sacrifice them as a feast in C-3PO's honor. Skywalker's use of the
Force to make C-3PO levitate combined with the droid 's warnings soon changed
Chief Chirpa's mind, however.

Ewoks celebrate their victory in the Battle of Endor

That night, C-3PO told the Bright Tree's Council of Elders the adventures of the
Rebel heroes. The Ewoks accepted the Rebels into their tribe and allied
themselves to their cause. Multiple Ewok tribes helped in the ground battle to
destroy the Imperial shield generator on the forest floor, and their primitive
weapons felled the stormtroopers and the scout walkers of the Empire, although
they took many losses to Imperial blaster fire. Their assistance paved the way
for the destruction of the DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station and the
Rebel victory at the Battle of Endor. Legend claimed it was the first time the
Ewoks had returned to combat in generations. Later that night, the Ewoks held a
huge celebration that could be heard throughout the forest.

After the Battle of Endor.

An Ewok Civil War broke out, forcing C-3PO and New Republic Captain Jaxxon T.
Tumperakki to travel to Endor on a diplomatic mission to put a stop to the
conflict. By two years after the Battle of Endor, many Ewoks had become caf
farmers. Additionally, at least one, Peekpa, had found employment with the New
Republic as a slicer.

When a galaxy -wide uprising against the First Order erupted, one of the worlds
to rise up was Endor. Warrick and his son, Pommet Warrick, witnessed the
destruction of a First Order Resurgent -class Star Destroyer by a Holdo
maneuver.

Ewoks in the galaxy.

Despite their primitive technology and their isolated homeworld, Ewoks were not
totally unknown in the wider galaxy ; during the Clone Wars, " Ewok Jerky " was
sold at Power Sliders, a diner on the planet Abafar. Additionally, some Ewoks
have been known to have left their homeworld and were seen across the galaxy
even before the Clone Wars.

As a manner of recompense for saving Endor, some Ewoks agreed to travel offworld
to help Rebel veterans recuperate, working with Doctor Arsad as "therapy Ewoks.
" Therapy Ewoks were offered to those who had suffered the horrors of war, such
as witnessing tragedy, and needed help with their recovery. Those that found
this option distasteful were sometimes given the use of a therapy droid instead.

Culture.

- They're using a very primitive dialect, but I do believe they think I am some
  sort of god.
 ―C-3PO.

Infant Ewoks

By the time of the Galactic Civil War, the Ewoks had reached a level of
civilization where they engaged in religious, artistic, medical, and even
political activities, and spoke in their own native tongue of Ewokese.
Nevertheless, they still focused most of their energies on the daily provision
of food. They had acquired knowledge of pottery, hunting, the construction of
complex wooden structures and the creation of fire. While most of their lives
would be spent in the treetops, several members of the tribe would be required
to venture out on the forest floor to forage for berries, gather herbs, and
hunt. During warm summer months, some Ewoks stayed in fishing villages or
hunting and farming lodges on the forest floor. Utilizing ponies and bordoks to
haul loads of supplies between settlements, they nonetheless kept their guard up
for ferocious predators and other sentient creatures such as the Yuzzums.
Existing in harmony with nature, Ewoks lived high among the trees of the forest
moon of Endor, in villages built between the closely spaced trees. The canopies
of the great trees were filled with watchers who could alert the tribe of
approaching gorax or condor dragons, and could use gliders to patrol the lands
beyond their local village. Bachelors, on the other hand, often lived on the
ground and kept watch for even greater dangers, such as Duloks, who often
emerged from the swamps to prey on Ewoks and lantern birds.

The Ewoks were a deeply spiritual people. They revered the surrounding giant
trees and believed themselves to be descendants of the "Great Tree, " a sacred
tree in the forests. The legend of the Golden One told of a deity that allowed
the Ewoks to live in light. The Golden One's opposite was the Adversary, a deity
representing darkness and death. Together, the two struck a deal to share Endor
equally, representing the forest's natural cycle of death and renewal. After
C-3PO and his rebel allies arrived and led the Ewoks into the Battle of Endor,
the legend told that the Golden One had returned to answer their prayers. The
conifer trees where Ewoks lived were also fire resistant, and served as a
natural insect repellent.

An Ewok village during the Battle of Endor, with Alliance-borrowed uplink
stations in the walkways

The basic design of a tree village had a "Central Village" of thatched-roof huts
on the primary limbs. These huts were high enough above the ground to be out of
reach of predators. Suspended bridges connected the gaps between trees,
adjoining distant huts. Knotted rope ladders allowed access up or down. Food,
kindling, and other provisions would be kept under the floor of the Ewoks'
houses, while woven sleeping mats and furs were stored in the lofts above.
Hoods, capes, and tools hung on the walls.

In Ewok society, the most important people were the chief, the medicine man, and
the Council of Elders, with a different council leading each individual Ewok
tribe.

The Ewoks enjoyed singing and playing music during celebrations, festivals, and
rituals. During the Ewok and Rebel celebration after the destruction of the
Death Star II, one Ewok in Bright Tree Village used a series of Imperial
stormtrooper and naval trooper helmets as drums, producing a variety of tones.

Ewoks clash with Imperial stormtroopers to liberate their homeworld

The Ewoks used a variety of weapons that included nets, knives, stone spears,
slingshots, bows, arrows, wooden battering rams, rolling logs, and catapults.
During the Battle of Endor, they threw large rocks at stormtroopers, used ropes
to dismount scout troopers from their speeder bikes, and tripped and crushed the
larger AT-STs with logs. Notable hunters slit the throats of Imperial officers
with their knives.

In addition, they were at least familiar with the movements of walkers, as
evidenced by two of the Ewoks piloting an AT-ST alongside Chewbacca shortly
after hijacking it.

Behind the scenes.

- The Ewoks are something people know about, they really make an impression and
  that's a good thing. I'm always hoping fans will make the connection, every
  which way to get the Coast Miwok name out there. We're talking about a people
  that were here for thousands of years, and they're not now. People should
  know.
 ―Lucina Thomas-Vidauri of the Coast Miwok discusses the link between the Ewoks
 and her tribe.

Early Ewok concept sketch

In the rough draft of the script for A New Hope, Wookiees participate in the
Battle of Yavin. When writing Return of the Jedi, George Lucas revisited the
idea that a primitive species would help the Rebels destroy the Death Star, but
decided not to use Wookiees because it had already been established that
Chewbacca was proficient with technology. His answer was to create a new species
called Ewoks, which is "Wookiee" with the syllables reversed and altered to
resemble the name of a Native American people, the Miwok.

In the audio commentary for the 2004 re-release of Return of the Jedi, as well
as the documentary Empire of Dreams: The Story of the Star Wars Trilogy, Lucas
also cited the Viet Cong as being the primary inspiration for the Ewoks,
particularly their defeat of the Galactic Empire.

Two actors within Ewok costumes at Crescent City.

The Ewok masks were designed by Stuart Freeborn. At one point during filming,
the Ewok actors went on strike and wore t-shirts with the slogan "REVENGE OF THE
EWOKS. " After their coach driver, who had agreed to let the actors onto set
early for their strike, arrived with no actors in his bus, the actors emerged
from a hill and began shouting "revenge. " Margo Apostolos, who played the Ewok
warrior Tokkat in the film, laughed at and recounted the moment as a memorable
experience to Star Wars Insider, claiming that their protest got the crew scared
as well. The Ewoks are never referred to by name in Return of the Jedi ' s
dialogue; the name only appeared in the script directions, the novelization, the
movie's credits, and other spin-off and promotional materials.

Ewoks make an appearance in the 2017 video game, Star Wars Battlefront II. In
multiplayer modes, such as Galactic Assault and Co-op, Ewok hunters serve as the
Rebel Alliance's infiltrator class and can be selected by players to play as.
Battlefront II also features Ewoks in a game mode called Ewok Hunt, in which a
group of players are chosen to play as Stormtroopers on Endor, while the rest
become Ewoks. The Stormtroopers are required to fend off the attacking Ewoks as
they wait for an evacuation shuttle to arrive. When Stormtroopers are defeated,
they join the Ewok team.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Star Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book

LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure

LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+ on the official Star
Wars YouTube channel ( backup link ) ( Posted on StarWars. com )

VISIONS FILMMAKER FOCUS: THE DUEL: PAYBACK on the official Star Wars YouTube
channel ( backup link )

"The Song of Four Wings" Episode Guide | Star Wars: Visions Volume 3 on
StarWars. com ( backup link )

"The Duel: Payback" Episode Guide | Star Wars: Visions Volume 3 on StarWars. com
( backup link )

Lessons with Rey on Life Day! 🎄❄️🍖| LEGO Star Wars: Holiday Special |
@StarWarsKids on the official Star Wars Kids YouTube channel ( backup link )

Notes and references.

↑ 1. 00 1. 01 1. 02 1. 03 1. 04 1. 05 1. 06 1. 07 1. 08 1. 09 1. 10 1. 11 1. 12
1. 13 1. 14 1. 15 1. 16 1. 17 1. 18 1. 19 1. 20 1. 21 1. 22 1. 23 1. 24 1. 25 1.
26 1. 27 1. 28 1. 29 1. 30 1. 31 1. 32 Star Wars : Episode VI Return of the Jedi

↑ Ewok in the Databank ( backup link )

↑ Star Wars Life Size

↑ 4. 0 4. 1 Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle 4

↑ Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia

↑ 6. 0 6. 1 6. 2 6. 3 6. 4 6. 5 Ultimate Star Wars

↑ Wicket W. Warrick in the Encyclopedia ( original site is defunct)

↑ The Princess and the Scoundrel

↑ " Whills " — From a Certain Point of View

↑ 10. 0 10. 1 Star Wars Battlefront II

↑ 11. 0 11. 1 11. 2 11. 3 11. 4 11. 5 Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of
the Dark Side!

↑ 12. 0 12. 1 " Yub Nub! 40 Years of the Ewoks " — Star Wars Insider 217

↑ Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded

↑ Star Wars Forces of Destiny — " Ewok Escape "

↑ 15. 0 15. 1 15. 2 15. 3 15. 4 " The Golden One " — Myths & Fables

↑ Holy Hutch! Star Wars: Hyperspace Stories Annual—Jaxxon 2023 Revealed on
StarWars. com ( backup link )

↑ Last Shot

↑ Star Wars : Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker

↑ Star Wars: The Clone Wars — " Missing in Action "

↑ Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge — " Episode 2 "

↑ Aftermath: Life Debt

↑ " Forces of Nature: The Wild Spaces and Wilder Creatures of the Star Wars
Galaxy " — Star Wars Insider 216

↑ Ewoks in the Encyclopedia ( original site is defunct)

↑ " Divine (? ) Intervention " — From a Certain Point of View: Return of the
Jedi

↑ Ewoks (2024) 2

↑ " Stewards of the Forest Moon " — Star Wars Insider 212

↑ Star Wars: The Annotated Screenplays

↑ Jeffrey Miller. Where There's Life, There's Lawsuits: Not Altogether Serious
Ruminations on Law and Life, ECW Press, 2003. English. ISBN 1550225014. "I took
the end of Wookiee, the 'ie' of Wookiee, and put it at the head, like Pig Latin,
and then started, when I said it phonetically, it sounded like Ewok which is
very similar to Miwok which is the Indians that sort of inhabited the area where
I live and where my studio is. Matter of fact, there was a Miwok village just
outside my office. So I thought that was a nice, nice sort of reverberation of
the idea and eventually took the 'i' and one of the 'os' out and it was Ewok. "
( web archive )

External links.

Ewok on Wikipedia

Quiz: How Well Do You Know Star Wars: Return of the Jedi? on StarWars. com (
backup link )

Quiz: Which Star Wars Movie Should You Watch On Star Wars Day? on StarWars. com
( backup link )

Related categories:

Ewoks

Ewoks
