Galactic Republic.

- The Galactic Republic was the Republic of legend, greater than distance or
  time.
 ―Janyor.

The Galactic Republic, also known as the Grand Republic or simply as the
Republic, was a democratic federal union spread across light-years of space. Due
in part to its long history, different names were used for bygone incarnations
or eras of the Republic. The Old Republic and the first Galactic Republic were
terms affixed to the original incarnation of the Republic that existed until its
fall to the Sith Empire, which in turn fell in 1032 BBY, leading to the
restoration of the Republic in that year. Later, the modern Republic that had
been supplanted by the Galactic Empire in 19 BBY was also referred to as the Old
Republic. Additionally, the High Republic was a term used to describe the modern
Republic during the era in which it had reached the zenith of its power, which
lasted from around 500 BBY to around 100 BBY.

The Republic was originally founded many millennia before the Battle of Yavin,
approximately around 25, 000 BBY to 20, 000 BBY. The Galactic Senate governed
the Republic under the Galactic Constitution, and comprised thousands of
senators representing the Republic's member worlds. The Supreme Chancellor was
the title of the head of the Republic, elected from ranks of the Senate to lead
the government on Coruscant. An ecumenopolis or city -covered planet, referred
to as Galactic City, Coruscant was the capital of the Republic and therefore the
seat of the Senate.

The Galactic Republic and its star systems shared sovereignty, and spanned a
multiplicity of worlds from the Core Worlds to the Outer Rim Territories,
uniting a variety of sentient species, human and alien alike, under one banner.
As its power grew, the Republic fought many wars against various opponents such
as Mandalorians, the Zygerrian Slave Empire, the Nihil, and several Sith
Empires. The Jedi Order, a religious group of Force-sensitives dedicated to the
light side of the Force, was sworn to the service of the Senate, and as such the
Jedi Knights were hailed as the guardians of peace and justice within the
Republic. Centuries of conflict culminated in the fall of the Old Republic, and
the last war between the ancient Jedi and Sith concluded with the restoration
and rise of the modern Galactic Republic, ushering in the Republic Era which was
an age of peace that lasted for a thousand years. The Republic's history was
officially reset, and the ages before this event were merged into a collective
whole known as the Old Republic-era.

The Republic entered a period of decline after centuries of expansion and
prosperity. Aided by the resurgent Sith Lords, the Separatist Crisis divided the
galaxy between the Republic loyalists and the Confederacy of Independent
Systems. The Grand Army of the Republic was organized under the leadership of
Jedi Generals who led the Republic Military against the Separatist Droid Army
during the Clone Wars. However, the conflict had been orchestrated to allow
Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine —the alter ego of Darth Sidious, the Dark
Lord of the Sith —to control and deceive the Republic in a dictatorial manner.
With the end of the war, Sidious initiated the Great Jedi Purge through Order 66
and transformed the Republic into the Galactic Empire by declaring himself
Galactic Emperor. The Imperial Senate stood as the last remnant of the Old
Republic until it was disbanded by the Emperor at the height of the Imperial
Era. In the aftermath of the Galactic Civil War, the Alliance to Restore the
Republic was fully reorganized into the New Republic, restoring the Galactic
Republic after a generation of Imperial rule.

History.

Birth of freedom.

- For over a thousand generations the Jedi Knights were the guardians of peace
  and justice in the Old Republic. Before the dark times. Before the Empire.
 ―Obi-Wan Kenobi.

The pre-modern Galactic Republic was referred to as the "Old Republic. "

The original Galactic Republic was formed between approximately 25, 000 BBY and
20, 000 BBY and rose to power by expanding across the galaxy, with several of
its founding members being the planets Alderaan and Chandrila. Around 20, 019
BBY, the Thisspiasian Blood Monarchy joined the Galactic Republic in its early
formation. Multiple versions of the Republic existed throughout its extensive
history ; historians referred to this pre-modern period as the "Old Republic, "
although the government's official name was the Galactic Republic. The capital
of the Old Republic was located on an ecumenopolis known as Coruscant and would
remain there for thousands of years.

At one time, Coruscant's fellow city -world of Troithe rivaled it as the
Republic's cosmopolitan center, holding a population in the billions. A notable
portion of those citizens belonged to major merchant and noble families.
However, Coruscant ultimately outpaced Troithe in industrial growth. As years
passed, Troithe fell into decline. At least five millennia before the start of
the Galactic Civil War, a rogue faction of Jedi broke away from the Jedi Order,
believing that practicing the dark side of the Force would benefit the
furthering of Jedi power. This schism divided the Order on ideological grounds,
igniting an event known as the Hundred-Year Darkness, which, in turn, resulted
in the formation of the Sith. At one point, they managed to construct a dark
shrine on Coruscant. The rogue faction was ultimately defeated, and they were
exiled from the Old Republic into uncharted space.

At some point, the Jedi Temple was constructed over the Sith shrine in order to
contain its dark energy. Once it had established itself on Coruscant, the Jedi
Order closely associated itself with the Old Republic, serving as guardians of
the peace and justice for over a thousand generations. Little did the Jedi know,
the Sith had regrouped on the planet Moraband.

Thousands of years before the Imperial Era, the Corellian royalty sponsored
exploration and colonization efforts that helped expand the frontiers of the Old
Republic. Hyperspace travel would prove to be the key to the Republic's
expansion beyond the Core Worlds.

A clash of destinies in the galaxy.

- The history of the Ascendancy is in these rooms, some of the pieces dating
  back to Chiss participation in the wars between the Galactic Republic and the
  Sith Empire.
 ― Mitth'raw'nuruodo , to Ar'alani.

As the Old Republic spread its influence across the stars, it came into contact
with various other powers, one of them being the Zygerrian Slave Empire. Due to
the fact that, at some point in its past, the Old Republic declared slavery
illegal and expected other civilizations of the galaxy to comply, it took an
aggressive stance against the Zygerrians. The Zygerrian Empire, which was built
upon slavery, refused to comply, forcing both the Old Republic and the Jedi to
intervene. After joining together, the Old Republic and Jedi Order sent their
armies against the empire after the Zygerrians refused. The Old Republic
ultimately came out victorious, driving the practice of slave trading into the
underworld, dismantling the empire, and confining what was left of its
government to Zygerria, the civilization's homeworld. Another one was the rogue
Predori empire.

Destructive wars were fought between the Sith and the Jedi in the age of the Old
Republic.

Eventually, the Sith would return in full strength, invading the Old Republic.
From there, the dark Order would do battle with the Jedi and the Old Republic.
This would lead to a series of conflicts between both groups that would go on
for thousands of years until the Old Republic's ultimate collapse. During one of
the wars, the Jedi fought the Sith Empire on Malachor, which proved to be one of
the most devastating battles in the history of the Order.

At some point, the Old Republic came into contact with the Mandalorian people.
The warrior civilization began a series of unprovoked military campaigns against
the Old Republic. Later on, after all-out war erupted, the Jedi stepped in to
defend the Republic. In the meantime, Republic and Jedi forces continued to wage
war against the expanding Sith Empire. During these wars, both sides would
construct massive superweapons powered by large kyber crystals capable of mass
destruction.

The Middle Era of the Old Republic was one period of galactic history. The
Galactic Republic also participated in the Sith Wars, a series of conflicts
against the Sith Empire and involving the Chiss Ascendancy. The Ascendancy
encountered a number of aliens before retreating to their borders.

Fall of the Old Republic.

- This lightsaber was stolen from your Jedi Temple by my ancestors during the
  fall of the Old Republic.
 ―Pre Vizsla, to Obi-Wan Kenobi, regarding the Darksaber.

The Mandalorian Wars brought on the beginning of the Old Republic's downfall.

With the civilization of the Sith and the warrior culture of Mandalore, and with
their beliefs of continual warfare without regard to the Jedi mandate of
protecting the weak, the Jedi Order continued to mobilize its forces in an
effort to stop enemy incursions into Old Republic space.

The power of the Sith Empire increased during the fall of the Old Republic. The
Sith soon achieved near-dominance across the galaxy. It was also during this
time that an ancestor of Pre Vizsla, leader of the Mandalorian group Death Watch
during the Clone Wars, managed to steal the Darksaber from the Jedi Temple.

At some point the galaxy entered a state known as the Dark Age. During this
time, the Jedi-Sith War broke out. Early on in this conflict, the Old Republic
capital world of Coruscant was taken over by the Sith during the Battle of
Coruscant. Later on in the war, the Sith were driven off the planet by the Jedi
during the Liberation of Coruscant.

The fires of hope.

- The Republic victory was so definitive that it reinvented itself, resettling
  its capital on Coruscant after a devastating ouster. History reset its chrono
  on this date, and from that moment, the modern Galactic Republic was born.
 ―Janyor.

The Old Republic managed to regain some of its strength after its forces had
reclaimed the capital, capable of going on the offensive. The Jedi were strong
enough to finally end its ancient war against the Mandalorian clans. A battle
between both groups on the planet Mandalore left the planet ravaged and
lifeless. It was during this time too when the Sith were finally defeated in
1032 BBY. The armies of the Old Republic and Jedi Knights were able to defeat
the remaining Sith at the Mid Rim Territories planet Ruusan by taking advantage
of the infighting within the Order, which proved to be the Sith's undoing. The
Sith abandoned their traditional homeworld of Moraband after it was scarred by
many wars, and went into hiding. Very few Sith remained by that point, and they
ultimately destroyed themselves. Only one Sith Lord survived; Darth Bane
reinvented the Sith by creating the Rule of Two. Henceforth, their ranks were
limited to a Sith Master and a Sith apprentice.

The Old Republic was reborn as the modern Galactic Republic after millennia of
warfare.

As the Old Republic fell apart as a result of its continuous wars, the Jedi
Order finally believed itself victorious from its conflict with the Sith, who
they believed to have been destroyed completely. Finally, with peace restored to
the galaxy, the shattered Old Republic reorganized itself into the modern
Galactic Republic, which would usher in over one thousand years of stability in
an epoch known as the Great Peace. The story of Old Republic Regent Hylemane
Lightbringer and his supposed immortality would be remembered in history texts
along with Old Republic music such as the Sestina of Imperator Vex, which would
continue to be sung even in the months following the Battle of Endor.

Rise of democracy.

- There hasn't been a full-scale war since the formation of the Republic.
 ―Sio Bibble.

The Great Peace of the Republic lasted for almost a thousand years.

The Old Republic was restored in the form of the modern Galactic Republic in
1032 BBY. After the Galactic Republic's reformation, the Zygerrians would
continue to hold a grudge against both the Republic and the Jedi Order for the
destruction of their slave empire.

The modern Republic was a democratic union that consisted of multiple star
systems spread across the galaxy. With the exception of small-scale conflicts
that the Jedi dealt with, the Republic Era was an age of peace and stability
that lasted for over a millennium. This version of the Republic existed in a
demilitarized state for most of its history; as such, the government relied on
the Jedi Knights, who upheld their mandate as the guardians of peace and
justice.

The Four Sages of Dwartii were notable in influencing some of its earliest laws.
As its governing body, the newly reorganized government established the Galactic
Senate, the members of which were elected to represent their systems. Coruscant
was the galactic seat of power under the Republic, as it had been for thousands
of years before the Republic's rebirth.

The Republic's head of state, the Supreme Chancellor, was elected by and from
the senators, in which the first in a long line of Chancellors was Tarsus
Valorum, a scion of the House Valorum. Protecting the new democracy was the
elite Senate Guard, who could be seen patrolling the Senate District and came to
be seen as symbols of strength and unity, especially considering the fact that
the military had been disbanded. In time, the Jedi Order, a noble order of
protectors who could tap into the power of the Force, came to serve the Republic
as guardians of peace and justice. With the lack of a standing army, the
Republic came to rely on its peacekeeping Judicial Forces, led by the Judicial
Department as the de facto law enforcement branch of the government. The
Judicial Forces, members of which were simply known as Judicials, trained at the
Judicial Academy and came to serve in both ground and space forces, often led by
Jedi Commanders to maintain peace throughout the galaxy.

High Republic Era.

A golden age.

- We are all the Republic.
 ―Lina Soh.

The term "High Republic" referred to an era of prosperity and exploration
between 500 BBY and 100 BBY.

With the galaxy at peace, the High Republic Era, which lasted from around 500
BBY to around 100 BBY, saw the Galactic Republic reach the pinnacle of its
power, with its influence spreading to even the farthest and less settled
regions of the galaxy: the Republic worked to expand into the Outer Rim,
specifically a region of the Rim known as the Galactic Frontier. The Jedi Order
also became increasingly active in galactic affairs and helped the Republic's
efforts. An Office of the Frontier was established. The Republic's expansion
kicked off the Great Hyperspace Rush to find and map any yet to be discovered
hyperspace routes, with Republic Pathfinders working directly for the government
as Outer Rim Exploration Teams. Private groups got involved in the hunt for new
hyperspace routes as well, with the San Tekka clan and Graf family both taking
advantage of the rush. The San Tekka clan's success in locating new routes and
ensuing fortune from those discoveries were secretly a result of the Force-
sensitive Mari San Tekka, who had the special ability to locate and map out the
routes herself.

Beyond the mission to open up new hyperlanes by discovering and charting them,
Republic Pathfinders were ordered to explore, help those they found, and, in
what was a major part of their mission, establish a functioning communications
network across the Outer Rim. While creating the network, Pathfinder teams often
worked alongside comms teams in order to get in contact with the Republic at
large while out in the Rim. However, the Pathfinders needed to establish the
network one node at a time. While the Pathfinders knew the long-term effort
would one day result in communications being as fast in the Rim as it was in the
Core, Grint Rupar of Outer Rim Expedition Eight-Zero-Seven suspected the work
would take generations. Nevertheless, Jedi Porter Engle dubbed it a noble effort
that would change lives for the better. Members of the Jedi Order worked side-
by-side with Pathfinders, traveling with them and helping in the Republic
effort. One Pathfinder team, while working on charting the hyperlanes near
Sullust, discovered the volcanic planet Tunguray and evacuated its people to
safety on Coruscant.

Orlen Mollo and Kyong Greylark served as Co-Chancellors of the Galactic
Republic.

By 382 BBY, leadership of the Republic was split between two chancellors, Orlen
Mollo and Kyong Greylark. Elected and then re-elected together, their joint
leadership as Co-Chancellors helped in the Republic's outreach; while the more
formal Greylark remained on Coruscant with the Senate, Mollo traveled across the
Outer Rim with his aides and crew aboard the Alif -class Longbeam Paxion,
adopting a hands on approach to governance to help with expansion and end
problems. Having lived through conflict on Mon Cala, Mollo believed he better
understood the Outer Rim but trusted in his Co-Chancellor, whom he believed saw
the promise in the Outer Rim but not the finer details he could, all the same
due to their shared vision: a truly united galaxy.

Ambassador ships like the Paxion were also provided with top-of-the-line
protocol droids, with the Paxion being given unit AR-K4. With the Republic aided
by the Jedi, the Republic and Togrutas engaged in a conflict in Togruta space
that left tensions between both parties. While Greylark believed the star system
was not ready for their intervention, Mollo traveled to the planets of Eiram and
E'ronoh, which were home to a war he hoped to finally put a stop to. At the same
time, a team of Jedi—consisting of Master Char-Ryl-Roy, Master Creighton Sun,
Knight Gella Nattai, and Padawan Enya Keen —traveled into the system aboard the
Valiant to provide aid to Eiram, only to collide with the Paxion amid a skirmish
that had secretly been orchestrated by the Path of the Open Hand cult under the
control of " the Mother. " Despite the rocky opening, Mollo and the Jedi began
the peace process between both worlds' royal families aboard the Paxion,
although progress only truly started to be made when E'ronohi princess Xiri
A'lbaran proposed to Eirami prince Phan-tu Zenn, thereby setting the stage for a
marriage alliance and an unlikely love story.

Meanwhile on Coruscant, Greylark feared Mollo was making a play at a solo-
chancellery ahead of the campaign season. In reality, Mollo simply wanted to be
the one to bring peace to the system because of his own past surrounded by war.
Deep down, Greylark did trust in her fellow Chancellor, but sent her
controversial son Axel Greylark to represent her office in the peace proceedings
and report back to her. Axel's own dealings with the Path of the Open Hand
nearly led to the destruction of the peace process after cult leader Elecia
Zeveron demanded he bring her a toxin developed on Eiram. Amid the successful
Wedding of Phan-tu Zenn and Xiri A'lbaran officiated by Mollo, Axel's
desperation to prevent Zeveron from securing the toxin led to him destroying the
deflector shields around Eiram's capital of Erasmus. After Axel's arrest, the
royals agreeing to destroy the toxin, and the formal beginning of the peace
process, Mollo reminded his fellow Chancellor to trust him, to which Greylark
admitted she did and she had simply wanted to trust her son as well.

Conflict with the Path.

- Speak to the Jedi Council soon, you should. We must explain the happenings on
  Dalna. All that went wrong.
- The communications errors. The machinations of the Path. All going back to the
  failed talks at Jedha. And beyond.
- But we must also speak to all the things that went right. We could not have
  defeated the Path without the Jedi.
- And the Jedi could not have defeated the Path without the help of our Republic
  allies.
- Yes. It is a lesson well learned, and a strength that the galaxy can draw
  upon, for centuries to come.
 Orlen Mollo : " The communications errors. The machinations of the Path. All
 going back to the failed talks at Jedha. And beyond. ".

The Republic rushed to Jedha to shut down the battle spurred on by the Path of
the Open Hand (violence on Jedha, pictured).

With it decided the Eirami and E'roni representatives would meet on the neutral
ground of Jedha to form an official treaty, Chancellor Mollo allowed Morton San
Tekka to oversee the discussions as neutral arbiter, deciding it would be better
than sending a Republic official. However, the interference of the Path and Graf
family member Tilson kicked off the Battle of Jedha, shattering any hope of a
lasting peace between Eiram and E'ronoh. Rushing to Jedha after receiving a
transmission from Sun about the collapse of the peace process, a group of Jedi
and a platoon of Republic peacekeeping troops shut down the battle. The Path was
correctly suspected to be behind the carnage, but the Mother publicly blamed
everything on rogue acolytes and attempted to clear her order's name by offering
a minimum of one million Zukkels towards rebuilding Jedha City. While the money
was accepted, the revelation that a group like the Path had access to such funds
caused the Republic to discreetly investigate, quickly discovering that the
Mother had ties to wealthy individuals whom she had convinced to fund her cult.

After the Battle of Jedha, Axel was freed from prison by the Path of the Open
Hand and brought to the Path compound on the planet Dalna, where he was received
by the Mother, who hoped to use Axel to leverage power over the galaxy through
his connection with Chancellor Greylark. In the Mother's plan, Mollo, meanwhile,
was going to be killed in a supposed accident as he traveled across the Rim.
Nonetheless, the Mother rallied her followers against the Republic ahead of the
looming Battle of Dalna, alleging that the Jedi lorded over the government and
galactic media. After Axel sent a message to his mother requesting her to come
to Dalna as part of the Mother's plans, Greylark decided that she needed to
support her son as a parent and understood that, should she arrive as
Chancellor, the galaxy would be in danger. As such, she relinquished her
position as Chancellor, leaving Mollo the sole leader of the Republic, much to
his shock.

In the name of investigating the Path, Jedi arrived on Dalna with the support of
the Republic, which approved of the action and dispatched guards Priv Ittik and
Lu Sweet to aid the Jedi. As the incident devolved into a battle, the Jedi would
also be aided by anti-Path Dalnans, but the Jedi were also faced by Force
consuming creatures known as the Nameless. In the end, Greylark arrived on Dalna
to help her son, and the united militaries of Eiram and E'ronoh arrived in the
name of defeating the Path after its efforts to divide them were uncovered.
Although the reinforcements shut down the fighting, the high causalities of the
battle, which ended with the Path even destroying its own caverns, resulted in
it being remembered as a massacre dubbed the Night of Sorrow. From a certain
point of view, the massacre had only happened because of the Jedi-Republic
partnership, yet the Jedi and Republic's victory in the battle was seen as proof
that partnership between both organizations made the galaxy stronger.

The Mother of the Open Hand (center) led her cult (members pictured) against the
Republic but failed to overcome the government and Jedi Order.

In the aftermath of the battle, Axel agreed to spend the time he owed in prison
and revealed what he knew of the Path's internal workings, although the cult's
membership had been shattered and fled across the stars. One of its major
leaders, Guide of the Closed Fist Marda Ro, escaped the destruction and set
about on a new plan for revenge by forming the Nihil, with her plan being
carried on by subsequent generations of the Ro family. Jedi Masters Crieghton
Sun and Yoda also agreed to cover up all information on the Nameless until more
details were discovered. Meanwhile, a new treaty was set to be signed by the
now-cooperating peoples of Eiram and E'ronoh. Two weeks after the battle, a
ceremony on the union of Eiram and E'ronoh and the opening of a new hyperlane
was held on their shared moon by Mollo. At some point, the San Tekka clan lost
Mari San Tekka to the Ro family, who used her to locate hyperspace Paths for
their own revenge scheme.

The Starlight Beacon program.

- In the days of the High Republic, the galaxy was not as settled as it is now.
  Areas like the Outer Rim were dangerous, hard to navigate. So the people of
  that time built a huge space station at great effort and expense and placed it
  in the center of the dark zones. It sent out a signal that acted as a sort of
  beacon, helping travelers find their way. They gave that station an inspiring
  name, fitting its purpose.
 ―Grek.

Supreme Chancellor Lina Soh endeavored to unite the various peoples of the
Galactic Republic.

In 232 BBY the Galactic Republic was under the leadership of Supreme Chancellor
Lina Soh and Vice Chancellor Larep Reza, who was a rising star in the Senate and
thought to be Soh's apparent successor whenever her term came to its end. To
showcase support for all species in its borders, the governmental motto became
"We are all the Republic. " Under Soh, the Republic even began to take steps to
curb its habit of indulging in bureaucracy when it needed to be instead taking
action; even though the issue remained in a lesser form, the Republic took great
steps in advancing beyond it. At some point the Republic intervened in the
Soikan civil war to finally put a stop to the seemingly-endless conflict.

Concurrent to its outreach program, the Republic was in the midst of an era
where all voices were listened to, creating governance from consensus and a
society of culture, inclusion, ambition, and Soh's many Great Works. Among the
earliest of these works—which encompassed everything from infrastructure
projects to cultural affairs— was the Panacea, a Salvation -class Republic
medical frigate that was deployed to help citizens after various crises;
therefore, the frigate became a symbol of Republic's dedication to help its
citizens. Other planned Great Works included a new treaty between the Mon
Calamari and Quarren, the Republic Fair, various communication relays, cementing
the understanding of how to cultivate Bacta, and various innovations in fields
like technology. The greatest of the works was nonetheless Starlight Beacon,
which was planned to only be the first in a Beacon network that could truly
bring the Republic out of the Core.

The Republic's "Great Works" initiative saw the construction of distant outposts
like Starlight Beacon.

Constructed along with other way stations at considerable expense and effort
through many challenges over a long period of time, Starlight Beacon was
designed to expand the Republic's domain to the unexplored "dark zones" of the
Outer Rim Territories because Soh pledged to bring that region into the
Republic's embrace, hoping the government could actually help the Outer Rim
instead of simply flying through it or using it as another place to collect
taxes. Beyond using its beacon to guide travelers and its relay to boost local
transmissions by a factor of ten, the Beacon was a Republic embassy within the
Galactic Frontier, that could serve many other purposes, being a fortress to
discourage piracy, a place for cultural showcases, a state-of-the-art medical
center, and, in part, a massive Jedi temple. The Jedi provided support to the
Republic and its projects. The Jedi established outposts on many Outer Rim
worlds, ensuring they could explore and protect those who lived without much of
a Republic presence.

Although the Outer Rim was hard to navigate and dangerous to live in, many poor
settlers traveled to the region, leaving the overpopulated Core Worlds and
Colonies in pursuit of new lives. These dreams for better lives were supported
by the Republic, which—although imperfect like all governments—encouraged the
hopes of its citizens, whether those hopes be large or small. Additionally, Soh
wanted the people of the Republic to know that they all were part of the
government, and the Republic began construction of Starlight Beacon to help with
its expansion into the Outer Rim. The beacon was the symbol of everything Soh
wanted for the Republic, being able to ensure it could truly expand from the
Core to be a galactic government. Others in the government preferred the status
quo, wanting to save credits in case of future issues, but Soh, having proved to
her people the positive effect of coming together, pushed on with her works to
bring the Republic into the Rim. Every Senator knew the success of Starlight
would bring forth Soh's hopes that future generations could live in prosperity,
while its failure would be massive.

Starships across the galaxy were thrown out of hyperspace in an event known as
the Great Hyperspace Disaster.

Lacking a formal military due to the galaxy's peace, the Republic was protected
by a small peacekeeping fleet known as the Republic Defense Coalition, which was
helped by the Jedi Order. Despite the large-scale partnership between them and
Republic during the era, there came to be some Jedi who doubted whether it was
truly the will of the Force for them to act so closely with the government.
Indeed, Jedi Master Cohmac Vitus believed it was a Republic and Jedi partnership
that had led to the massacre on Dalna from over a century prior. The partnership
between the two parties would only increase when the Nihil conflict began; the
conflict began when starships were abruptly knocked out of hyperspace in a
galaxy-wide event known as the Great Hyperspace Disaster caused by the Eye of
the Nihil Marchion Ro, a member of the Ro family who had destroyed the transport
Legacy Run in hyperspace, which made its remains come out of hyperspace in the
Hetzal system, causing a sudden crisis as they rained upon the system. Beyond
wanting revenge on the Jedi for secretive, family reasons, Ro had made his move
to ensure the Nihil raiders could grow beyond what they were currently. With the
Republic expanding into the Outer Rim, he knew they would need to change
themselves to survive, launching his plot to ensure he could secure leadership
over the raiders.

The Jedi and Republic rushed to the Hetzal system to save it from the Great
Disaster.

The RDC deployed the Emissary -class Republic Cruiser Third Horizon to the
Hetzal system in response to the Hetzalian government 's distress signal. Aboard
the ship, Jedi Master Avar Kriss was overseeing the effort, learning through her
Force network that some of the fragments raining upon the system contained
living beings. She helped lead the effort to rescue the system's refugees and
everyone aboard the fragments until she detected a large container of liquid
tibanna threatening the system's R-class star. Kriss and the other Jedi used
their combined focus to move the container with the Force, while the RDC
continued to focus on evacuating the remaining refugees. The Jedi's effort to
move the container was broadcast across the Outer Rim and into the inner
Republic worlds by technician Keven Tarr ; while he had at first only sent the
signal to Chancellor Soh, he did not want his star system to be destroyed
without being acknowledged, so the people of the Republic watched the Jedi
effort. At first, the Force users failed, but their second attempt moved the
container, saving Hetzal and resulting in cheers across the Republic.

Although the Republic was able to learn the destruction of the Legacy Run had
been the cause of the disaster, the government remained unaware of why it was
destroyed, making Soh fear another disaster could happen in hyperspace.
Additionally, the Republic was faced with the Emergences ; these were when
remaining fragments of the Legacy Run, which were all continuing to travel
throughout hyperspace, exited in an Outer Rim system, resulting in pieces
raining down and destroying whatever they hit. The First Emergence was at the Ab
Dalis system, which was further along the same hyperspace route the Run had been
traveling on, and these Emergences continued to spread. Thus, Soh feared the
Republic could have to cease hyperspace travel, which would separate worlds and
effectively end the galactic government. Additionally, the Nihil took advantage
of the First Emergence, launching a raid on a convoy of ships carrying refugees.
Nevertheless, because he had caused it, only Ro understood that they were
directly responsible for the Great Disaster and its aftershocks.

Conflict with the Nihil.

- I mean the Republic, building its Starlight Beacon out in my territory.
  Invading, taking over, with all its rules and laws and particular brand of
  freedom that isn't free at all. And you Jedi always just behind, absolutely
  convinced that every action you take is right and good. My family learned that
  to its cost, long ago.
 ―Eye of the Nihil Marchion Ro.

Although it was a larger mobilization effort than anything done for sometime,
Soh established an RDC blockade of various Outer Rim hyperspace routes,
intending to protect starships from being destroyed in hyperspace by stopping
that travel altogether. The blockade would ultimately be forced to grow as more
systems were effected by the Emergences. As predicted by Senator Izzet Noor, who
served as the spokesperson in the Senate for the majority of the Outer Rim, the
blockade brought strife, as many Rim worlds were not self-sufficient and
depended on hyperspace for trade. During a meeting on Coruscant fifteen
Emergences into the crisis, Soh had pledged to send supply ships into hyperspace
if a food crisis grew too dire, although the halting of the trade still had
major negative effects for the Rim. During that same meeting, she established
that the hyperlanes would remain closed, minus limited transport of essential
goods, until they knew more about the crisis before noting she was unwilling to
postpone the dedication of the Starlight Beacon ; it was nearly finished, and
she wanted to use the event to showcase a triumph over adversity.

The Great Disaster precipitated a conflict between the Republic and the Nihil in
the Outer Rim Territories.

Survivors of the first Emergence and Great Hyperspace Disaster were taken to the
yet-to-officially open Starlight for medical treatment. With Starlight due to
open in thirty days, Soh gave that as the timeline to solve the Emergence
crisis; she did not want to open the way station while the blockade was still
ongoing, knowing it would appear as if the Republic could not protect its own
people. Due to the blockade, the Nihil's craft became the only ships traveling
at lightspeed, making Ro suggest they slow down operations—stating they could
attract the attention of the Jedi or RDC—while also sowing the seeds for his
takeover, approving the raid on Elphrona to ensure a Jedi would be captured.
Meanwhile with the Republic, technician Tarr, having tracked the previous
Emergences to form a pattern, began to construct a system of thousands of
navigation droids, hoping it could be used to predict where future Emergences
would be and find the Legacy Run ' s black box. Assigned to learn more about the
Emergences, Jedi Avar Kriss and Elzar Mann were also directed to meet with the
San Tekka Clan on Naboo by Noor, yet Patriarchs Vellis and Marlowe San Tekka did
not disclose any information about Mari, despite realizing her abilities could
have caused the crisis and giving the Republic effort other aid.

The Republic rescue fleet was dispatched to the planet Trymant IV in the wake of
an Emergence and Nihil attack. The Republic effectively assumed the Nihil were
destroyed in the Battle of Kur, but the marauders survived and began to launch
their raids on a galaxy-wide scale, instead of remaining in the Outer Rim. The
Nihil attack on Valo was a major blow to the Republic, although it did give a
chance for the Republic and Torgrutas to heal their relations. In the aftermath
of the Battle of Grizal, Republic forces rallied under Jedi Master Emerick
Caphtor to clear out a Nihil base on Vrant Tarnum. Following the end of the
Drengir crisis, the Republic and Jedi were able to focus their efforts on
defeating the Nihil through Operation: Counterstrike, in which the Republic and
Jedi moved to wipe out all known Nihil bases. However, the conflict also
resulted in the Republic and Jedi growing closer together, with Chancellor Soh
and her aides coming to insert themselves into even the Jedi Council's normally
private meetings. In secret, the Nihil had also infiltrated the Galactic Senate
via Senator Ghirra Starros and Jeni Wataro, aide to Senator Noor. In 200 BBY,
Jedi Padawan Sean remembered that the Nihil had launched an invasion of the
Republic.

Expansion and stagnation.

- With eyes toward expansion into the uncharted reaches of the Outer Rim, the
  traditions of the Core became passé. Opportunity beckoned from beyond the
  borders of the Mid Rim worlds.
 ―Janyor.

Commerce guilds generated massive profits by investing in the Republic's
expansionist policy.

The light and prosperity of the High Republic Era was fading by 132 BBY and came
to its final end around 100 BBY. Still, for centuries, the Galactic Republic had
expanded not through force but by quietly exerting a strong magnetic pull
towards neighboring systems. The promise of trade with Core World markets held
many systems in sway, inexorably luring non-member worlds into tighter
cooperation with the state body. Despite this, the Republic remained slow to
invite new systems into its fold, as the addition of new territories diminished
the political power of existing senators. New member states invariably aligned
themselves with local galactic power blocs, while most senators who gave the
invitations represented systems in the Core. As a result, the Galactic Center
represented the beating heart of the Republic that habitually drew wealth and
power from the hinterlands, with most senators dismaying at the extension of
services and protection to outlying worlds. Consequently, many useful star
systems were left waiting—some for centuries—for the body politic to admit their
world as a member of the Congress, even though it came at the cost of the body's
overall power.

As time went by the Republic stood firm, becoming increasingly powerful. As a
result, the galaxy remained free of any full-scale war for centuries. However,
many of the bureaucrats and senators that ran the government continued to work
for their own profit rather than the common good. Greed, corruption and internal
strife slowly began destroying the government from within. The Core, revitalized
from the destructive conflicts of the past and ravenous for new resources to
exploit, embarked on an aggressive colonization policy, exploring, mapping, and
settling untouched planets within the Outer Systems, striking deals with or
simply overrunning the indigenous populations that stood in their path.
Adventurous pioneers found themselves granted permission by Coruscant to settle
new territories and establish trading colonies to feed the Core with the goods
and raw materials for its continual self-enrichment. Many new systems, finding
themselves lacking the funds to mine, process, and ship their products to
market, were forced to secure high-interest loans from the InterGalactic Banking
Clan, whereupon many, unable to repay their debts, found themselves as mere
client worlds to the Muun bankers. As time progressed, the laborious task of
astrogating by hyperwave beacons —which required numerous reversions to
realspace —became simplified with the founding of new hyperlanes, such as the
Hydian Way. Many systems, eager to benefit from the opportunities offered by
charting hyperlanes through their system, sought to influence the Republic
Senate to put themselves on the galactic map.

The peoples of various worlds were influenced by Coruscanti culture and Republic
architecture during the reign of the Galactic Republic.

Culturally, Coruscanti fashion, art, drama and literature saw receptive
audiences across the galaxy. Seeking to impress visitors from the Core, many
worlds sought to build lavish mansions that imitated the architectural style of
the Inner Core. Despite this, many Coruscanti looked with disdain on what was in
reality nothing more than a gaudy impersonation. To them, these lifeforms on the
galaxy's fringes appeared barbaric, with most worlds still lacking weather
control or struggling with geological disturbances and food shortages.
Additionally, many outlying worlds, lacking the protection of a federal military
found themselves continually harassed by numerous pirates and criminal
organizations, further ingraining the long-held view that those from the
galaxy's outlying settlements lacked cultural refinement and basic civility.

A deep-rooted hatred and distrust grew over the centuries between the galaxy's
outer fringes and the cosmopolitan Core, with those in the hinterlands gradually
coming to believe themselves the victims of social and economic injustices. As a
result of the perceived inability of the Judicial Forces in protecting outlying
territories, who were often withheld in intervening after many far-flung worlds
refused to provide the Core Worlds with profitable deals, the Outer Rim world of
Eriadu —one of the most politically, culturally and economically developed
worlds—formed the Outland Regions Security Force for the protection of the
Seswenna sector. Comprising an amalgam of ships, it was funded primarily by off-
world loans and supplied with laser and ion cannons acquired from arms merchants
who had for centuries been ignoring a Republic ban on the sale of weaponry to
member worlds. While the Outland Regions Security Force at first lacked success,
it soon came to be renowned for its efficiency at dealing with raiders,
especially after Wilhuff Tarkin was accepted into Outland's anti-piracy task
force, in which he was known for outsmarting and outmaneuvering his opponents.

The Galactic Senate was mired in political corruption during the Republic's
final years.

Despite Outland's best efforts, the Outer Rim Territories continued to fall
victim to increasing corporate interests from the Core, with the monolithic
Trade Federation expanding its reach in both the Outer Rim and the Galactic
Senate by utilizing loopholes in existing free-trade legislation. By 42 BBY, the
Republic was expanding at an unprecedented rate, yet that expansion was largely
due to the Federations' interests. While a faction known as the Militarists
emerged in the Senate with hopes of establishing a formal Republic Military at
some point, the Senate voted to cut the Republic Security Force 's trade route
defense program, citing cost concerns as the Federation was unwilling to pay
whatever taxes would be incurred to pay for the Republic Guard program. Jedi
Master Dooku implored the Senate to reconsider, but his objections were shouted
down by Senator Bulgeski —whom Dooku would point out had previously called on
the Republic Guard for the protection of his own world, Salliche —and the
Federation's representative. Chancellor Skor Kalpana —who was characterized by
Senator Sheev Palpatine as a good, yet also weak, man—also rejected Dooku's
suggestion.

Shortly before the Invasion of Naboo, a trade summit was held on the Outer Rim
planet of Eriadu in which Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum was turned away by
Wilhuff Tarkin, who was hoping to reduce the influence of the Chancellor who
some already expected to lose the next election in order to support Senator
Palpatine, who had earlier helped Tarkin gain entrance into the Judicial Academy
and supported his ascension as Governor of Eriadu.

Invasion of Naboo.

- It is clear to me now that the Republic no longer functions. I pray you will
  bring sanity and compassion back to the Senate.
 ―Padmé Amidala, to Sheev Palpatine.

The Sith orchestrated the Invasion of Naboo by controlling the leaders of the
Trade Federation.

Despite the best efforts of the well-meaning Chancellor Valorum, the Trade
Federation blockaded Naboo over disputes about plasma exports. A Judicial force
carried Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi to the Saak'ak, a
Trade Federation Lucrehulk -class LH-3210 cargo freighter to discuss a peaceful
resolution to the conflict. Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith, ordered
Viceroy Nute Gunray to invade Naboo ahead of schedule, and to kill the
Chancellor's Jedi ambassadors. Theed, the capital city of Naboo, was swiftly
occupied by the Trade Federation Droid Army. The Jedi, having survived the
Federation's efforts to kill them, escaped to Naboo where they rescued Queen
Padmé Amidala and her entourage.

Amidala undertook a journey to Coruscant to plead her homeworld 's case to the
Senate, but the damage to the Naboo Royal Starship 's T-14 hyperdrive generator
necessitated a detour to the remote world of Tatooine for repairs. Acting on
Gunray's report, Sidious instructed his Sith apprentice, Darth Maul, to locate
and reacquire the queen as only she had the authority to sign a treaty making
the Federation's occupation of Naboo legal. Although Maul tracked them to
Tatooine, he failed to prevent the Jedi from escaping with Amidala on her
repaired starship. In addition, Jinn took custody of an emancipated slave child,
Anakin Skywalker, whom he found to be exceptionally strong with the Force.
Believing that he had found the prophesied Chosen One, Jinn brought Skywalker to
Coruscant to begin his Jedi training.

Queen Amidala's Vote of No Confidence was instrumental in Senator Sheev
Palpatine's rise to power.

Senator Palpatine and Chancellor Valorum greeted Amidala upon her arrival to the
capital. Though Valorum assured her of the Senate's distress over the situation,
Palpatine warned her that neither the Senate nor the Chancellor were likely to
intervene unless they made a change in leadership. As Naboo's galactic
representative, Palpatine served as Amidala's advisor and confidant. He told her
that the Senate was corrupt, and the Chancellor a figurehead to the bureaucrats.
When the Trade Federation's delegates forced Valorum to adhere to bureaucratic
procedure, Amidala countered by calling for a Vote of No Confidence in him,
following Palpatine's advice despite her initial reluctance to denounce a strong
supporter of her world.

Believing the Republic no longer adhered to its founding principles, Amidala
returned to her planet to liberate the people of Naboo without the Senate's
intervention. Before leaving Coruscant, Palpatine informed her of his nomination
to succeed Valorum. His competitors were Senator Bail Antilles of Alderaan and
Senator Ainlee Teem of Malastare, but Palpatine assured Amidala that he would
win the election through widespread sympathy for Naboo's plight. He vowed to
dedicate his term to ending corruption, and Amidala implored him to restore
compassion to the Senate.

The victors of the Battle of Naboo celebrated their triumph in the liberated
city of Theed.

Unable to count on Republic aid, Amidala turned to Naboo's Gungan population.
Despite ill feelings between their segregated societies, the occupation of their
shared homeworld allowed Amidala to mend their relationship through diplomacy.
The Gungan Grand Army confronted the Trade Federation's battle droids while the
Naboo Royal Space Fighter Corps launched an attack on the Saak'ak in orbit. The
Gungans were forced to surrender after their defenses collapsed, and several
Naboo Fighter Pilots were killed in the space battle. However, Amidala's team
infiltrated the Theed Royal Palace where they captured Gunray, and with the
Saak'ak destroyed by Skywalker, the droids were deactivated. In the aftermath of
the Battle of Naboo, Gunray was taken into Republic custody and the newly-
elected Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine arrived in Theed where he and the
queen congratulated each other on their recent success. The new Chancellor said
that they would work together bringing peace and prosperity to the Republic.

Separatist Crisis.

- I will not let this Republic that has stood for a thousand years be split in
  two. My negotiations will not fail.
- If they do, you must realize that there aren't enough Jedi to protect the
  Republic. We're keepers of the peace, not soldiers.
 ―Sheev Palpatine and Mace Windu.

The Separatist Crisis reflected widespread disillusionment with the Republic.

Following the Naboo Crisis, the Trade Federation monopoly on the Outer Rim was
broken, all while Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum's political standing suffered
from the crisis along with other scandals. In his wake, Palpatine was appointed
to the position of Supreme Chancellor, eventually creating an image of himself
as a mild-mannered servant of the common good, despite his true intentions.
However, growing tensions between the Core and Outer Rim worlds gradually
increased to the point where many believed that a war was imminent. Foreseeing
this conflict years before the Invasion of Naboo, Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas
advocated for the creation of a new Republic army, only to be rejected by the
Jedi High Council, who believed his ideas too extreme. Undeterred, Sifo-Dyas
contacted the Kaminoans, known for their clone hatcheries, and secretly
commissioned them to create a clone army, pretending to represent the Galactic
Senate. Unbeknownst to Sifo-Dyas, Darth Sidious had earlier contacted Prime
Minister Lama Su, and convinced him to implant a behavioral modification biochip
into the clones during the third stage of their development to turn against the
Jedi at a mere command.

The former Jedi Master Dooku led the Separatist movement against the Republic.

The dashing swordsman and political idealist Jedi Master Count Dooku, taking an
eight- year leave of absence from the Jedi Order and now secretly the apprentice
of Darth Sidious and dubbed Darth Tyranus, paid the Pyke Syndicate to eliminate
Sifo-Dyas over the planet of Oba Diah. With Sifo-Dyas originally heading to the
planet in order to negotiate a dispute that could have resulted in a full-scale
gang war on Coruscant, Sifo-Dyas was suddenly re-assigned to Felucia when his
shuttle was abruptly shot down over the planet. Bringing his body to Felucia,
where it was cremated by tribal inhabitants, Dooku managed to trick the Jedi
Council into believing Sifo-Dyas had been killed by the Felucians, all while
erasing the existence of Kamino from the Jedi Archives.

In the decade after the Invasion of Naboo, the whereabouts of Count Dooku were
scarcely known, with many believing he merely wished to form an offshoot of the
Jedi Order. In reality, Dooku manipulated galactic events to foment political
turmoil on a variety of worlds, including Kashyyyk, Sullust, and Onderon.
Seeking to create a southern Separatist sphere of influence by bringing Yag'Dhul
and Sluis Van to his side, Dooku needed to persuade the now prosperous world of
Eriadu to join the Separatists. However, Wilhuff Tarkin was pressured to declare
his loyalties especially after Dooku commandeered a HoloNet station in the Raxus
system and denounced the Galactic Republic, effectively setting the stage for
the Separatist Crisis. Tarkin ultimately sided with the Galactic Republic in his
stern belief that an inefficient yet unified galaxy was better than a fractured
one.

The Senate granted the chancellor emergency powers at the behest of
Representative Jar Jar Binks.

Chancellor Palpatine's negotiations with the Separatists were unsuccessful,
leading the Galactic Senate to consider the Military Creation Act. Senator
Amidala led the opposition against the bill, believing it would make war between
the Republic and the Separatists inevitable. Following an assassination attempt
on Amidala, the chancellor ordered her to return to Naboo while the Jedi
investigated the plot against her. Junior Representative Jar Jar Binks assumed
her responsibilities on Coruscant for the duration of Amidala's absence. The
Jedi's subsequent discovery of two secret armies, the clones and the battle
droids, influenced the Senate's next actions. The Loyalists agreed that the
Republic needed the clone army, yet they felt that the Senate would fail to pass
the Military Creation Act before the Separatists' attacked the Republic with
their droid forces. When Vice Chair Mas Amedda suggested that they resolve the
crisis by bestowing emergency powers to Chancellor Palpatine, Representative
Binks proposed as much to the Senate who passed his bill, allowing Palpatine to
officially recognize the clone army as the Grand Army of the Republic. A self-
proclaimed proponent of democracy and Republic patriot, Palpatine assured the
senators that he intended to return the powers that they had given him after the
crisis was over.

The Clone Wars.

- I have to admit that without the clones it would not have been a victory.
- Victory? Victory, you say? Master Obi-Wan, not victory. The shroud of the dark
  side has fallen. Begun, the Clone War has.
 ―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda.

The Battle of Geonosis was the first battle in the Clone Wars.

The Clone Wars began with the First Battle of Geonosis. Supported by the
Republic Navy, the Grand Army of the Republic engaged the Separatist Droid Army
in the open field. The Jedi joined the battle as well, acting as de facto
generals for the clone troopers. Meanwhile, Poggle the Lesser 's schematics for
the Ultimate Weapon were transferred to Dooku who escaped the battle after
dueling Skywalker, Kenobi, and Grand Master Yoda. Simultaneously, the various
members of the newly-founded Confederacy of Independent Systems evacuated the
planet as Republic clone troopers gradually forced the droid army into full
retreat. The battle was hailed as a Republic victory, although Yoda took the
opposite position as he knew that war would spread across the galaxy. Count
Dooku traveled to an industrial sector on Coruscant to inform his master that
the war had begun as planned, all while the Jedi High Council pondered Dooku's
warning that the Dark Lord of the Sith controlled the Senate.

In the aftermath of the Battle of Geonosis, the deadly three-year conflict that
engulfed the galaxy in chaos officially began. Though suspicious of Dooku's
claim that the Senate was under the Sith's influence, the Jedi continued to
serve the Republic. The military rank of Jedi General was created, allowing the
Jedi to lead the Grand Army of the Republic in an official capacity. Early into
the war, Sidious learned of a splinter faction in the Trade Federation under the
Neimoidian Oje N'deeb, who wanted to usurp Gunray and give the Outer Rim a
chance for a new future. While initially outraged and considering crushing the
rebellion outright to ensure the Federation and the legacy it would leave behind
stayed true to his plans, Sidious quickly realized he could use the upstart to
his advantage; if N'deeb's operation was turned to his own ends, the Outer Rim
would be strengthened by N'deeb's faction, but that work would only serve to
prolong the war. Once the "chance" N'deeb offered the Rim was crushed,
furthermore, Sidious understood that its people who feel even more bitter
towards the Republic.

With the galaxy in a state of war, the Jedi became generals in the Grand Army of
the Republic.

The worlds that were caught in the middle of the conflict were forced to choose
sides between the Galactic Republic and its clone army or the ever-expanding
Confederacy of Independent Systems and its droid army. With the war well under
way, numerous diplomatic envoys engaged in several attempts to sway local worlds
to join the Galactic Republic, with Jedi Master Yoda seeking to win the support
of the Toydarian King Katuunko, while Sith assassin Asajj Ventress sought to
disrupt the meeting, and instead sought to win the support of the king to join
the Confederacy. The Republic also sent military aid and support to factions in
need, such as Cham Syndulla 's Twi'lek Resistance on Ryloth, or to the Dugs of
Malastare, whose lucrative fuel reserves were a great boon to the Republic Navy.
Numerous worlds such as Mandalore also attempted to maintain their neutrality,
although they often were forced to seek aid from third parties in times of need.

Throughout the Clone Wars, numerous attempts were made against Supreme
Chancellor Palpatine's life, including an kidnapping attempt on Naboo
masterminded by Count Dooku as well as the hostage taking of members of the
Galactic Senate by notorious bounty hunter Cad Bane. However, political intrigue
fueled not only the conflict, but also advances in weaponry and the development
of equipment to enhance existing armed forces. Attempts at biological weapons
were launched by Separatist scientist Nuvo Vindi, who attempted to re-create the
ancient Blue Shadow Virus capable of killing millions across the galaxy, while
the Republic developed the experimental electro-proton bomb, which could send
out an electric pulse upon detonation capable of deactivating an entire droid
army.

The Republic transported a Zillo Beast to Coruscant after the Battle of
Malastare.

Following the Battle of Malastare, the Republic also attempted to create an
impenetrable armor by unlocking the biological secrets of the Zillo Beast, an
ancient creature from the Mid Rim, only to have the attempt end in failure,
sending the beast on a rampage across Coruscant. After its death at the hands of
a Jedi task force, the beast was secretly cloned by orders from the Supreme
Chancellor himself. In the meantime, the Republic developed a stealth ship
capable of cloaking itself, as well as upgrading its standard Phase I clone
trooper armor to the more sophisticated Phase II clone trooper armor prior to
the Battle of Mon Cala.

Republic clone troopers were the military arm of the Galactic Senate.

The Republic adopted the clone army to defeat the Separatists, but the clone
troopers were also at the disposal of the Senate. The Coruscant Guard was formed
by clone shock troopers stationed on the Republic capital; senatorial delegates
were accompanied by clone bodyguards; and the clones became involved in the
Republic's internal disputes by acting as enforcers of the Senate. The Senate
Guard still accompanied dignitaries on off-world missions, but as the war
continued the Coruscant Guard became increasingly responsible for the security
of the Supreme Chancellor and the delegates of the Senate.

On one occasion, the Republic deployed a Jedi-led force of clone troopers to
Orto Plutonia at the behest of one of its members, the Pantoran Assembly. The
government of Pantora claimed sovereignty over the planet, which resulted in
open conflict between the Pantorans and the native Talz. Although the clones
served under the Jedi, they were also beholden to the authority of the Pantoran
leader, Chairman Chi Cho, and the Pantoran senator Riyo Chuchi.

Fall of the Republic.

- Too late, for what? The Republic to fall? It already has, and you just can't
  see it! There's no justice, no law, no order except for the one that will
  replace it!
 ―Maul.

The Jedi Temple was the site of a terrorist attack against the Order.

The Grand Army of the Republic was led by Jedi Generals throughout the Clone
Wars. While many heroic actions were taken by the Jedi and the troopers under
their command, inspiring the public with stories of bravery, war weariness only
continued to grow as the years went by. The Republic citizenry grew to believe
that the Jedi had abandoned their role as peacekeepers, and staged massive
protests outside of the Jedi Temple as a result. Despite their waning influence
in the galaxy, the Jedi continued to lead the Republic's forces but sustained
many casualties in the process. Their role in the conflict was opposed not only
by civilians, but also the Republic officer Wilhuff Tarkin who wanted to revoke
the Order's military authority, convinced that the Jedi Code was a hindrance on
the Republic war effort.

Padawan Barriss Offee also disagreed with the Order's involvement in the Clone
Wars, and staged a bombing in the Jedi Temple as protest, all while framing
Ahsoka Tano of committing the act before being captured herself. The Separatist
Shadowfeed operation, an attempt by Count Dooku to spread information on
Republic defeats, making it appear as though a Separatist victory was
inevitable, fueled public anxiety and consequently accelerated the
militarization of the Republic over the course of the war. Palpatine painted the
picture of military victory over the CIS being the only way to lead the galaxy
to peace, justifying the expansion of the Republic Military in the process.

Chancellor Palpatine's wartime powers made him a dictator in all but name.

The war also served as a means for Palpatine to amass more emergency powers,
cementing his position as Supreme Chancellor far longer than it technically
allowed, all while continuing to centralize political and military authority
within the Office of the Chancellor, which included putting the InterGalactic
Banking Clan under the Chancellor's oversight. By gaining wartime powers,
Chancellor Palpatine was effectively a dictator.

Palpatine used the war as his reasoning for amending the Galactic Constitution
multiple times, enshrining greater power in his office through his changes. He
became the most powerful chancellor since before the Ruusan Reformations. Under
the Reflex Amendment, he secured near-total power over the military. The Sector
Governance Decree, passed towards the end of the war, gave governors sent out by
Palpatine authority over neighboring star systems, all in the name of the war
effort.

The Republic invaded Utapau with the goal of bringing a decisive end to the
Clone Wars.

After nearly three years of constant warfare, the war reached its climax during
the Battle of Coruscant, where both factions engaged in a massive naval and
ground battle over the Republic's capital world. The confrontation ultimately
saw the Republic dealing a severe blow to the Confederacy with the loss of a
portion of its fleet as well as its head of state, Count Dooku, at the hands of
Anakin Skywalker. Shortly afterwards, General Grievous met his end at the hands
of Obi-Wan Kenobi during the Battle of Utapau. Yet even as the Republic pressed
on with the Outer Rim Sieges, determined to bring an end to the civil war, the
Jedi High Council had grown increasingly wary of Palpatine.

Over the course of the Clone Wars, the Chancellor's wartime authority reached
unprecedented levels at the expense of the Senate, some of whom also grew
concerned for the future of the Republic. As such, members of the Council and
the Senate began to consider their options for the preservation of democracy.
The Delegation of 2, 000 emerged and sought to petition the Chancellor to
relinquish his emergency powers, whereas the Council contemplated the
possibility of removing him by force and taking over the Senate in order to
secure a peaceful transition of power.

Palpatine was the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, whose machinations brought about the
fall of the Jedi and the Republic.

Ultimately, their suspicion of the Chancellor was vindicated when Skywalker
uncovered the truth: Sheev Palpatine and Darth Sidious, the Sith mastermind
behind the Clone Wars, were one and the same. Realizing they had been deceived
by the Chancellor, the Council attempted to arrest the Sith Lord before his plan
could come to fruition, consequently leading to a lightsaber duel in which
Sidious struck down Agen Kolar, Saesee Tiin, and Kit Fisto before Mace Windu
disarmed him. Given the Chancellor's control over the Senate and the courts,
Windu deemed Sidious too dangerous to live. However, Skywalker, despite having
performed an execution himself, argued that execution was contrary to the Jedi
way, though his personal attachment to Amidala also influenced him at this
critical point as he believed that Sidious could save her life.

In a moment of desperation, Skywalker disarmed Windu, which allowed Sidious to
kill the Jedi Order's champion with a torrent of Force lightning. Having chosen
the path of the dark side, the fallen Jedi Knight became Darth Vader and
subsequently led the attack on the Jedi Temple while Sidious issued Order 66 to
the Grand Army, causing the clone troopers being brainwashed into betraying and
executing their Jedi leaders across the galaxy. The execution of Order 66 marked
the moment where the destruction of the Republic was inevitable, although Maul
maintained that the Republic had already fallen and the Jedi had simply failed
to realize as such.

With the Jedi eliminated, Sidious declared himself Emperor of the Galactic
Empire.

The Senate held an emergency session at the Chancellor's request. Sidious
publicly denounced the Jedi Order; he accused them of plotting to assassinate
him in order to take control of the Senate, and by extension, the Republic.
Meanwhile, Vader undertook a mission to Mustafar where he personally executed
the Separatist Council, at the behest of Sidious who betrayed and no longer
needed them. With the Great Jedi Purge in effect, and the Separatists
neutralized, Sidious proclaimed himself Galactic Emperor. The Galactic Republic
officially became the Galactic Empire, and democracy was supplanted by the
fascist New Order. While many senators cheered and applauded the birth of the
Empire, Amidala and Organa quietly lamented the Republic's end. Vader
deactivated the droid army soon after killing the Separatist leaders on
Mustafar. The Clone Wars was over, and its conclusion marked the dawn of the
Imperial Era.

Legacy.

Empire and rebirth.

- This is Master Obi-Wan Kenobi. I regret to report that both our Jedi Order and
  the Republic have fallen, with the dark shadow of the Empire rising to take
  their place. This message is a warning and a reminder for any surviving Jedi:
  trust in the Force. Do
- return to the Temple. That time has passed, and our future is uncertain.
- . Avoid detection. Be
- … but be
- . We will each be challenged: our trust, our faith, our friendships. But we
  must persevere and, in time, I believe
- will emerge. May the Force be with you always.
 ―Obi-Wan Kenobi's warning in the recall signal.

The Galactic Empire sought to erase all traces of the Galactic Republic.

In the decades after the dissolution of the Galactic Republic, numerous
individuals still clung to the memory of the now Old Republic and its fabled
Jedi warriors, while many individuals who knew the Jedi in person refused to
believe the Emperor's account of a "Jedi Rebellion. " The Jedi Order that served
the Republic would continue its legacy and endure during the Great Jedi Purge.
Having been freed from his control chip by former Jedi Ahsoka Tano during the
skirmish aboard the Venator -class Star Destroyer Tribunal, the former Clone
Captain Rex resolved to fight against the Empire in the name of the Republic,
even telling former Clone Sergeant Hunter that they were living proof that the
Republic lived on, and his clone siblings.

Nevertheless, a majority of galactic citizens eventually came to believe and
actively support the pro-Imperial view, believing the Republic to have grown
weak and corrupt, necessitating Palpatine's rise to power. In order to destroy
the memory of the previous government, any visible reminder of the Old Republic
was quickly removed, with many organizational changes altering the names of
various locales and institutions, while architecture was molded to a more severe
and dark aesthetic. With the renowned Galactic Senate being renamed the Imperial
Senate and the Senate Plaza renamed Imperial Plaza and a giant statue of the
Emperor erected in it, one could almost forget the Republic even existed.

However, the memory of the Republic as a force of freedom and justice could
never be fully destroyed as long as those who still believed in it lived, thus
spurring numerous resistance movements throughout the Empire's reign such as the
Free Ryloth Movement and Berch Teller's rebel cell. These displays of resistance
eventually coalesced into the Alliance to Restore the Republic prior to the
Battle of Yavin, where the Death Star was destroyed. Subsequent battles included
the Battle of Endor which saw the destruction of the second Death Star and the
deaths of Sidious and Vader, the latter redeeming himself as Anakin Skywalker.
In the aftermath of their victory at Endor, the Alliance declared itself the New
Republic as an ode to the Old Republic.

After the Emperor's death, the Rebel Alliance was reformed into the New
Republic.

However, the New Republic disavowed some aspects of the Old Republic,
particularly the legacy of its final years under the chancellery of Sheev
Palpatine. The word "Supreme" was removed from the title of Chancellor ;
Coruscant was stripped of its traditional role as the galactic capital, allowing
other worlds to host the restored Galactic Senate on a rotating cycle; and the
Military Disarmament Act reduced the New Republic Defense Force in the aftermath
of the Galactic Civil War. Such efforts succeeded in convincing former
Separatist worlds to support the New Republic, but also led to political
partisanship in the Senate where Populists favored the sovereignty of member
worlds while Centrists lobbied to increase the central government's power and
military spending. Ultimately, the Centrist worlds seceded from the New Republic
and joined the First Order, a successor to the Galactic Empire, resulting in the
Cold War between the two galactic powers.

The story of Old Republic Regent Hylemane Lightbringer and his supposed
immortality would be remembered in history texts along with Old Republic music
such as the Sestina of Imperator Vex, which would continue to be sung even in
the months following the Battle of Endor.

Posterity's judgment.

- Before the outbreak of war, the twilight of the Republic was an era of
  distractions, with citizens from all walks of life following escapist
  pursuits. Historians rebuke the people of this last age for being taken in by
  such circuses when their attentions should have been focused on the
  malfeasances and corruption in the Senate and other governing institutions.
 ―Janyor.

Historians rebuked the generation that witnessed the Republic's downfall,
holding the people of this last era of peace responsible for the death of
liberty.

Hailed as one of the greatest political achievements in the galaxy's history,
the Galactic Republic was described by the historian Janyor as "the Republic of
legend, greater than distance or time. " Although other versions existed in the
ancient past, collectively known as the "Old Republic, " posterity credited the
modern Republic for delivering the galaxy from an age of darkness and, with the
help of the Jedi Order, forging an era of peace that lasted for a thousand years
until the advent of the Clone Wars. Historians romanticized the Age of the
Republic, calling it the "last era of peace"—notwithstanding isolated conflicts,
which were notably few and swiftly resolved by Jedi mediators—before the rise of
vast warships and planet-killing superweapons.

The Republic in its final years, however, was remembered with less fondness.
Historians regarded the people of that time as a generation of apathy and
indolence, in which galactic senators cared more about power and luxury than
representing their constituents or addressing the perceived inefficiencies of
the government. The civilian population was also seen as a contributing factor
to the Republic's demise, with Core Worlders being more invested in podracing
events in the distant Outer Rim Territories than the politics that caused
dissatisfaction to fester and grow into the Separatist Crisis. Ultimately,
historians rebuked this generation and held it responsible for the collapse of
the "comfortable civilization" that defined the modern Galactic Republic.

Organization.

Politics.

- It's been my experience that senators are only focused on pleasing those who
  fund their campaigns—and they are more than willing to forget the niceties of
  democracy to get those funds.
 ―Obi-Wan Kenobi.

The Supreme Chancellor was the elected leader of the Galactic Senate.

The institutions of the Galactic Republic consisted of the Office of the
Chancellor, the Galactic Senate, and the Judicial Department. Executive power
was vested in the Supreme Chancellor, although this office was largely powerless
and hampered by bureaucratic procedure, particularly during the chancellery of
Finis Valorum. Nevertheless, the Chancellor had the authority to issue executive
orders summoning the Senate to an emergency session or sending senators away
from Coruscant for security reasons.

The chancellery of Sheev Palpatine shifted the balance of power in favor of the
Chancellor's office, a consequence of the wartime powers that the Senate gave
its leader on the eve of the Clone Wars. As the conflict spread across the
galaxy, Palpatine's chancellery gradually morphed into a dictatorship with
control over both the Senate and the Republic courts. Near the war's end,
Palpatine appointed Anakin Skywalker as his own personal representative on the
Jedi High Council, which the Jedi considered an overreaching exercise of the
Chancellor's authority. By then, Palpatine had managed to remain in power by
exceeding the term limits of his office, an action that the Senate supported.

The Galactic Senate was the governing body of the Republic.

Prior to Palpatine's rise to power, the Galactic Senate was the legislative body
of the Republic. Many member worlds across the galaxy were represented in the
Senate which was headquartered on Coruscant, capital of the Republic. At it
height, the Senate's power eclipsed that of the Supreme Chancellor but it had
also become stagnant under unbridled corruption and layers of bureaucracy. As
more politicians grew enamored with the comforts of their office, prioritizing
power and wealth over their constituents' needs, average citizens questioned if
the Republic and its high taxes were worth the membership. The Jedi had also
grown distrustful towards senators and regarded their motives with skepticism,
notwithstanding the Order's allegiance to the Senate as a whole.

Conflicting ideologies led to factionalism, intrigue, and murder in the Senate.

With the Senate hamstrung by political infighting and a strict adherence to
protocol, it failed to bring swift resolutions to either the Invasion of Naboo
or the Separatist Crisis. In lieu of a diplomatic solution, the Senate rallied
under Chancellor Palpatine's leadership. However, the decision to grant him
emergency powers eroded their authority, allowing Palpatine to amass even more
power at the expense of the Senate. At the time of the Clone Wars, the Senate
was divided between supporters of the war effort and pacifists who sought a
peaceful end to the fighting.

The Judicial Department was an umbrella department over the Republic courts,
including the Supreme Court, the highest court of law in the Republic. Its
authority also extended over the Judicial Forces and the Republic Office of
Criminal Investigations. Like its legislative counterpart, however, the courts
were mired by a stagnant bureaucracy and was known to be even more indecisive
than the Senate. Despite the arrest of Nute Gunray, multiple trials in the
Supreme Court failed to remove him as leader of the Trade Federation to the
dismay of the Naboo government.

Clone troopers were used as tools of political propaganda during the Clone Wars.

Propaganda in the Galactic Republic had long served to sway public opinion in
favor of Republic policies, from expanding into the Outer Rim Territories, to
waging a pan-galactic war against the Separatists. One such propaganda tool was
the Commission for the Protection of the Republic (COMPOR). Formed in the early
days of the Clone Wars, COMPOR existed as a pro-Republic populist movement. As
such, the organization's mission was twofold: to promote patriotism in the
Republic, and to brand the Separatists as traitors. This goal was achieved
through the artwork of Donclode Onstruss, Hamma Elad, and other artists
associated with COMPOR.

Throughout the conflict, COMPOR propagandists sought to sustain the war effort
by keeping public opinion on the side of the Republic's military forces and
their commander-in-chief, respectively the clone army and Supreme Chancellor
Sheev Palpatine. Following an early attempt to utilize the Jedi Order as a
propaganda tool, COMPOR focused increasingly on the Grand Army of the Republic,
portraying clone troopers as a symbol of unity that the citizenry was encouraged
to support. In regard to the Separatists, COMPOR depicted their leaders as icons
of " evil, " specifically General Grievous and Count Dooku. Using loyalty to the
Republic and fear of the Separatists, COMPOR lobbied the Galactic Senate to give
more emergency powers to Chancellor Palpatine whom they supported as a wartime
leader.

The Galactic Republic also founded the Apprentice Legislature, also known as the
Junior Senate, for politically minded youth who wished for a future career in
politics. The Apprentice Legislature were given several real issues to deal with
but were minor and weren't security issues. Padmé Amidala, the last Republic
senator of Naboo, was an Apprentice Legislator at eight years old. The
Apprentice Legislature would also exist under the Republic's successor, the
Galactic Empire, though by 3 BBY only forty worlds still sent representatives to
the Legislature.

Political divisions.

- The chair recognizes the senator from the sovereign system of Naboo.
 ―Finis Valorum.

The countless worlds of the Galactic Republic were allowed to retain their
individual sovereignty, to which they shared with the Galactic Republic.

All political entities in the Galactic Republic were fully sovereign, and
thereby shared in the privileges and obligations that came with being part of
the Republic. Corporations and guilds were also allowed to join the Republic,
who all sent democratically elected representatives on behalf of their
governments or trade groups from across the galaxy, to the Galactic Senate.

A series of treaties between various entities which governed the existence of
the Republic Defense Coalition during the High Republic Era. They included
defense provisions which required Republic members, such as Chandrila and
Alderaan to loan military assets such as starships and personnel for as long as
they were needed, after which they were returned to their homeworlds.

As one of the consequences of the Military Creation Act, the Corellia system,
one of the founding systems of the Galactic Republic, was able to close its
borders, but without withdrawing from the Republic during the Separatist Crisis.

Foreign policy.

- If we are successful, you'll have Maul and I'll have Mandalore.
- If Republic forces aid you in your assault, it will break treaties that are a
  hundred years old. We will effectively be drawn into yet another war.
 ―Bo-Katan Kryze and Obi-Wan Kenobi.

The Republic intervened in the internal conflict of an independent world,
believing Carnelion IV possessed valuable resources.

The Senate did not intervene in the Open-Closed war on Carnelion IV because the
planet was not part of the Galactic Republic. Carnelion IV did not join the
Republic because the Senate had little economic interests in the planet. The
Republic's diplomatic fleet subsequently forced a ceasefire to the Open-Closed
war after Kenobi claimed that the planet had high concentrations of tibanna gas
in its atmosphere in order to bring an end to the long-running conflict.

During the Clone Wars, the Republic tolerated the political stance of neutral
governments, among which were the New Mandalorians. Their leader, Duchess Satine
Kryze, was a staunch pacifist who sought to keep her homeworld and it allies out
of the conflict through her capacity as head of the Council of Neutral Systems.
The Republic and Mandalore coexisted through treaties over a century old by the
time of the Clone Wars, though by then the Senate sanctioned a plan to invade
the planet Mandalore, having grown to believe that Kryze's pacifist government
could not protect the Mandalorian people from the Death Watch movement. However,
the invasion was called off due to evidence that the Senate's pretext for
war—the testimony of Deputy Minister Jerec —had been falsified.

The neutral world of Mandalore hosted a failed peace conference between the
Republic and the Separatists.

Mandalore was the site of attempted peace talks between the Galactic Republic
and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, with Duchess Satine overseeing the
conference. Both governments dispatched their delegates to the neutral world in
addition to Republic Senate Commandos and Separatist BX-series droid commandos.
Negotiations broke down, however, allowing the war to continue without
interruption.

During the war, although Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine claimed that the
Republic was willing to assist a neutral star system during their times of
crisis, the Senate and the Republic as a whole almost always declined aid,
particularly military aid, to neutral governments as a matter of policy. If a
government broke its neutrality by siding with the Separatist Alliance, it
risked becoming an enemy of the Republic. When the InterGalactic Banking Clan
began favoring the Separatists at the Republic's expense, the Republic
retaliated by deploying an invasion force to occupy the planet Scipio.

Mitth'raw'nuruodo did not see the Galactic Republic as a suitable ally for the
Chiss Ascendancy, despite working with Anakin Skywalker.

Despite Mandalore's neutrality, Ahsoka Tano and Bo-Katan Kryze requested the
Grand Army's support to depose the Shadow Collective that supplanted Satine
Kryze's regime. Although the Jedi were concerned about getting drawn into the
Mandalorian civil war while in the midst of the ongoing Clone Wars, especially
when the world in question was still officially neutral, they permitted a
division of the 501st Legion to support the Mandalore resistance in the Siege of
Mandalore.

During the Clone Wars, the Republic made indirect contact with the Chiss
Ascendancy through Jedi General Anakin Skywalker's encounter with Senior Captain
Mitth'raw'nuruodo "Thrawn, " an officer of the Chiss Expansionary Defense Fleet.
Thrawn had been tasked with exploring the Outer Rim by the time the Ascendancy,
having discovered a mysterious threat in the Unknown Regions, sought to assess
the Galactic Republic as a potential ally. Thrawn gathered intelligence on the
Clone Wars through his interaction with Skywalker, who, in turn, recruited the
Chiss officer's help with rescuing Senator Padmé Amidala. Skywalker was
impressed by Thrawn during their time working together, which he later reported
to Chancellor Palpatine. Thrawn was unimpressed by the Republic, however,
believing democracy to be an inefficient form of government.

Defense.

Republic Defense Coalition.

The Republic Defense Coalition was an interplanetary alliance between the
Republic's member worlds.

The Republic Defense Coalition, also known as the RDC, was organized as a small
peacekeeping fleet that defended the Galactic Republic's interests during the
High Republic Era. The RDC was bound together as an organization through defense
treaties signed by the Republic's member worlds, including Alderaan and
Chandrila. The treaties that created the RDC gave it the ability to allocate
starships and personnel from the signatory worlds in times of emergency. These
resources would remain under the RDC's control until the threat was neutralized,
after which they would be returned to their homeworlds. The Republic also
maintained formations of Republic peacekeeping troops, who were deployed to
quell conflicts in Republic territory.

The fleet consisted of several starship types, such as Emissary -class cruisers,
Pacifier -class sector patrol cruisers, Longbeam cruisers, and Z-28 Skywing
starfighters. Despite the existence of the RDC, the Republic was at the height
of an era of peace that had lasted for centuries, with neither the Hutts nor the
Mandalorians posing a threat. As a result, the Emissary -class resembled a work
of art, its crenellations and spires designed to be symbolic of the Republic in
a state of tranquility. The RDC operated alongside the Jedi Order as well,
allowing the peacekeepers to store their personalized starfighters, the Jedi
Vectors, in the hangars of its Emissary -class cruisers. The Republic rescue
fleet was also maintained at the time of the High Republic.

Judicial Forces.

- The Judicials are at the end of their tenure, in any case, as the Jedi seem to
  have become the Senate's arbiters of choice.
 ―Sheev Palpatine, to Wilhuff Tarkin.

Judicials were non-Jedi peace officers of the Republic.

The Judicial Forces were the armed peacekeeping forces of the Galactic Republic
Judicial Department. While the Jedi helped to maintain order and peace under the
authority of the Galactic Senate, they were not considered a standing military.
As officers of the government, Judicials had access to Consular -class space
cruisers. The distinctive design and color of Republic cruisers identified them
as diplomatic vessels, often used by delegates of the Galactic Senate, agents of
the Supreme Chancellor, or members of the Jedi Order.

In the last decades of the Republic, the Jedi effectively supplanted the
Judicial Forces as arbiters of the Senate. Judicials therefore acted in a
supporting capacity, escorting Jedi ambassadors on their offworld missions.

Republic Military.

- As my first act with this new authority, I will create a Grand Army of the
  Republic to counter the increasing threats of the Separatists.
 ―Sheev Palpatine.

The Grand Army of the Republic was composed of clone troopers.

Towards the end of the Separatist Crisis, the Galactic Senate passed the
Military Creation Act, which led to the creation of the Grand Army of the
Republic and the Republic Navy. Outfitted with armor weapons and gear, clone
troopers were the backbone of the Republic Military. Bred for loyalty and
combat, clones symbolized the future of galactic warfare at the time of the
Clone Wars, the conflict that derived its name from their ranks. The training
that they experienced molded the clone troopers into a highly efficient army,
and because they retained the ability to think creatively despite their stunted
independence, they were considered far superior to their droid counterparts. In
their first battle against the Separatist Droid Army, the Grand Army displayed a
level of military strength unseen in the history of the galaxy.

Clone troopers served under the command of Jedi Generals.

Clones were, by and large, proud to serve as soldiers of the Galactic Republic.
Although a minority committed treasonous acts such as desertion or espionage for
the Separatists, most were steadfast in their allegiance and many troopers
sacrificed themselves for the Republic. They were loyal to the Supreme
Chancellor, but also the Jedi who served as generals in the Grand Army of the
Republic. A strong sense of trust developed between Jedi generals and clone
commanders over the long campaigns of the Clone Wars.

There were several types of clone soldiers that stood as a breed apart from
their rank-and-file brethren. The Advanced Recon Commandos, for example, were
noted for their elite status and capacity for independent thinking. Another
specialized class was the clone commando —elite operatives trained for missions
too complex for other soldiers.

The Republic Navy utilized Venator -class Star Destroyers as capital ships.

Along with the Acclamator -class transgalactic military assault ship and other
support vessels, the Venator -class Star Destroyer was the mainstay warship of
the Republic Navy. Part cargo transport and part troop carrier, the Venator was
also developed for ship-to-ship combat. The Venator notably contained a large
hangar for housing state-of the-art Republic starfighters.

The Republic Navy fielded various ships over the course of the war. Early models
included the V-19 Torrent starfighter and the Clone Z-95 Headhunter. New
fighters were added to the Navy in the final months of the war. The Aggressive
ReConnaissance-170 starfighter represented the latest design in starfighter
technology, while the Alpha-3 Nimbus -class V-wing starfighters incorporated the
design improvements of the ARC-170 an the earlier V-19.

Jedi Order.

- They have numbers on their side. And the faith of the Republic.
- For the moment. In time, and with careful planning, they will lose both.
 ―Darth Maul and Darth Sidious, on the Jedi Order.

The Jedi Order served the Galactic Republic as guardians of peace and justice.

The Galactic Republic placed its faith in and full trust into the Jedi Order,
relying on Jedi Knights to safeguard peace and maintain justice in the realm. It
was with the Order's aid that the Galactic Senate was able to govern the galaxy
for a thousand years. The Order's allegiance was to the Senate, though by the
final years of the Republic, the Jedi regarded politics with skepticism,
believing politicians were untrustworthy. Nonetheless, the Order maintained a
close relationship with the Republic to uphold their mandate as keepers of the
peace.

The Order could identify Force-sensitives shortly after their birth, as long as
they were born within the Republic. Offering a Force-sensitive child to the
Order was considered a great honor by the majority of the Republic's population,
as well as a personal sacrifice. The Order became the true family of every child
brought into its ranks, and Jedi doctrine did not permit them to know their
birth families. Therefore, familial attachment was surrendered in service to the
Order.

With the fall of the Jedi Order, the Galactic Republic was transformed into the
Galactic Empire.

While the Order numbered ten-thousand strong at the height of the Clone Wars,
their ranks were insufficient for the defense of the Republic. Therefore, the
Jedi were compelled to lead the clone army with the aim of bringing a swift and
decisive end to the conflict between the Republic and the Separatists. With no
end to the war in sight, however, anti-war protests broke out on Coruscant where
Republic citizens decried their leaders and the Jedi alike. When the Clone Wars
ended, Darth Sidious accused the Order of staging a rebellion to overthrow the
Senate and their chancellor. The Senate supported the chancellor's actions,
which included the purging of the Order followed by the Republic's
reorganization into the Galactic Empire.

Economy.

- The Republic is near bankruptcy due to the cost of this war!
 ―Bail Organa.

The Republic credit was the currency of the Galactic Republic. Beyond Republic
space, however, credits had no value on frontier worlds like Tatooine.

The Republic possessed immense economic power, having maintained peace—with the
aid of the Jedi Knights—throughout the known galaxy for almost a millennium.
Peace, in turn, promoted commerce. Under the Republic's protection, Naboo and
other culturally rich worlds were able to profit from lucrative tourism.

Corporations possessed considerable influence in galactic politics during the
era of the Republic.

The business sector experienced an exponential growth in wealth and influence
through widespread commercialism, with massive corporations funneling
substantial amounts of capital into advertising their essential services to the
wider galaxy. This unbridled "brand-building" initiative generated steady
profits for vast enterprises like the Trade Federation.

The Republic's expansion into the Outer Rim Territories proved lucrative to both
the galactic government and the private sector. Eleven Star Marketing, a
subsidiary of the Trade Federation, worked closely with the Republic Ministry of
Economic Development to propagandize the exploration and colonization of the
Outer Rim, convincing the lower class citizens of the Inner Rim to see the
galactic frontier as an opportunity for profit. This arrangement would entangle
Republic politicians with corporate lobbyists, both of which profited from the
flow of settlers who had to pay tariffs and registration fees in order to reach
the Outer Rim through one of the Federation's hyperspace routes.

The Republic filled its war chest by encouraging its citizens to buy war bonds.

The Separatist Crisis had a significant impact on the Republic economy, with
major worlds, like Serenno, Raxus, and Onderon seceding from the pan-galactic
union. As a result, the Republic lost access to the resources and tax revenue of
the Separatist worlds. Diminished taxation revenue only compounded the
Republic's debt, throwing the Senate into a crisis that ultimately led to open
war between the Republic and the Separatist Alliance.

The Clone Wars disrupted the galactic economy as the Senate exhausted its
options to fund the Grand Army of the Republic while staving off bankruptcy. The
government urged its people to buy war bonds, using propaganda to convince the
citizenry that it was their patriotic duty to give financial support to the war
effort. In addition, the Republic sought to keep its war chest filled by
imposing higher taxes on civilian skylanes, however unprecedented it was on
cosmopolitan worlds like Coruscant.

The Senate also weighed the need for additional clone troopers against the
corresponding cost of growing supplemental units to replenish the Grand Army's
ranks. Funding the military had all but bankrupted the Republic treasury, which,
in turn, shut down some of the basic services that the Republic had always
provided for civilians who lived in the lower levels of Coruscant.

The Senate voted in favor of deregulating the banks in order to continue
financing the Republic war effort.

The Republic imposed regulations on the banking industry prior to the Clone
Wars, but the war's increasing cost led the Senate to consider deregulating the
banks in order to access new lines of credit. After much debate, the Senate
passed the Republic financial reform bill. The banks were deregulated, and the
Republic submitted applications for further loans to support the production of
more clone units.

Following the Republic invasion of Scipio, the InterGalactic Banking Clan
surrendered its financial assets to the office of Supreme Chancellor Sheev
Palpatine. As a result, the Republic gained direct control over one of the
galaxy's most influential commerce guilds.

Though the Clone Wars had exacted a heavy toll on the Republic treasury, the
Republic remained a powerful economic force in the galaxy. The Separatist
Alliance, while supported by the resources of corporate barons, was eventually
overwhelmed by the economic and military power of the Republic.

Science and technology.

- You know how hard it is to find all original parts from way back in the
  Galactic Republic?
 ―Peli Motto, to Din Djarin.

The Galactic Republic invested in aesthetics and technological advancements for
the starship industry. During the Republic's reign, starships were designed to
be aesthetically pleasing in order to meet the customers' demand for "style and
elegance" in their vessels. Craftsmanship, however, gave way to practicality as
the Republic transitioned into the Galactic Empire, leading to the decline of
sleek lines in favor of harsh uniformity, mass production, and sheer size.

Millions of identical clones were bred to fight as soldiers of the Republic.

Cloning was a science in which an organism was "genetically duplicated into one
or more identical copies. " While neither the Senate nor the Jedi had any
knowledge of the clone army's development prior to the Clone Wars, the Republic
became heavily invested in the field of genetics throughout its conflict with
the Separatists. The Kaminoans used their skills to transform the science of
cloning into big business, resulting in the mass production of clone troopers
who numbered in the millions. Their expertise all but perfected the art of
genetic duplication. However, cloning humans was still a flawed science that
occasionally produced aberrations. Nevertheless, the Kaminoans' cloning methods
made it possible to alter clones at the genetic level, making them more docile
and age twice as fast as natural-born humans. They were also just as capable of
engineering a clone for the purpose of pure genetic replication, giving it
neither growth acceleration nor behavioral modification for greater docility.

The Clone Wars drove the Republic's technological advancement.

The Clone Wars gave the Republic an incentive to spearhead technological
innovation in spacecraft and terrestrial transportation for military purposes.
The result was a legacy with far-reaching effects in the industry of science and
technology. The Star Destroyer, the most visible representative of modern
military capital ships, originated with the development of the Republic Navy's
Venator -class Star Destroyer. The X-wing starfighter evolved from the Z-95
Headhunter ; the BTL Y-wing starfighter was developed during the Clone Wars, and
was still considered relevant long after the Republic's time. The Republic
developed all terrain walkers, including the six- legged All Terrain Tactical
Enforcer, as a response to the Separatist Armored Assault Tank and other droid
battle tanks. This in turn influenced the developmental design of far larger
vehicles, such as the Imperial All Terrain Armored Transport and the First Order
All Terrain MegaCaliber Six, than what the Republic fielded in the Clone Wars.

The electro-proton bomb was capable of destroying an army of droids in a single
attack.

The Republic employed brilliant scientists, such as Doctor Sionver Boll and
Doctor Nala Se, who contributed their expertise to the war effort against the
Separatists. Boll developed the electro-proton bomb, an experimental explosive
device capable of generating a massive burst of electromagnetic pulse energy to
disable battle droids and any other form of technology. Nala Se was the foremost
scientist in the field of cloning; she supervised the development of the
Republic's clone army, although Boll was also familiar with cloning as
Chancellor Palpatine ordered her to clone a dead Zillo Beast.

The Death Star originated from the Republic Special Weapons Group and the
Separatist schematics for the Ultimate Weapon.

The Republic Special Weapons Group was formed to oversee the development of
military technology more advanced than conventional weapons of warfare. The
group was composed of technologists like Wilhuff Tarkin and Orson Callan Krennic
; using the Geonosians ' schematics for a moon -sized battle station, they began
implementing plans to construct the ultimate weapon. Their work continued after
the Republic fell, and after years of delay the DS-1 Death Star Mobile Battle
Station was made operational by the Empire. Both its size and power inspired the
creation of more advanced weapons with the capacity to destroy planets, from the
Imperial DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station to the First Order's
Starkiller Base and the axial superlaser cannons of the Final Order 's Xyston
-class Star Destroyers.

According to Peli Motto, a technician who lived on Tatooine, technology from the
era of the Galactic Republic was rare by the time of the New Republic Era.
Nevertheless, Motto endeavored to acquire the parts needed to rebuild a derelict
N-1 starfighter for her client, the Mandalorian Din Djarin. As a Galactic
Republic-era starfighter, the N-1 was made of pre-Empire handmade components and
therefore not manufactured by droids. One such component was a turbonic venturi
power assimilator that Motto acquired from a group of Jawas.

Society and culture.

Civilization.

- Tales of its founding have been occluded by the haze of intervening millennia,
  and its rebirth a thousand years ago was regarded as the latest evolution in
  an unending cycle. Like the greatest of trees, however, the Republic's decline
  began from within, with a deep rot that was not apparent until it was too
  late.
 ―Janyor.

The Core Worlds represented the wealthiest and most prestigious region in the
Galactic Republic.

The Galactic Republic governed the galaxy as a democratic union, and as such, it
featured a diverse society of humans and various alien species. Coruscant in
particular was emblematic of Republic society with its diverse mix of citizens
and culture, making the Republic capital the "vibrant heart" of the galaxy.
Overall, being a galactic government, trillions lived under the Republic, with
every one of those beings an individual who had their own thoughts and opinions
on current issues; as such, complete consensus was impossible, yet successful
Chancellors, like Lina Soh, nonetheless proved it was possible to bring about
effective, galactic rule. In Soh's case, she argued to her people the advantage
of coming together to make life better for all. Others failed to bring about
that same unity by making impossible promises, threats, or abusing power.

The Core Worlds, where Coruscant was located, was home to the most developed
systems in the Republic. Various Core planets served as capitals for galactic
governments such as the Old Republic, the Empire, and the New Republic. The
prosperity of the Core made its worlds the wealthiest and most prestigious
members of the Republic, though it was also a source of tension between the Core
and the more distant regions of the galaxy. People who lived outside of the Core
generally viewed "Core Worlders" as arrogant, entitled, and apathetic to the
well-being and needs of other regions. A common criticism of Republic politics
was that the system disproportionately favored the Core Worlds to the point of
ignoring the rest of the galaxy.

The Republic capital's lower levels were ridden with crime and poverty.

Coruscant was perceived as perpetuating the Core Worlds' reputation for extreme
wealth and privilege. Notwithstanding its unique status as the galactic capital,
the whole planet was covered by a city of levels built upon levels throughout
the ages of galactic history. The tallest skyscrapers rose over five-thousand
levels above the planet's natural surface, and only those who could afford to
live in the upper city had access to the comfortable and luxurious lifestyle for
which Coruscant was famous. The disparity was such that the lower levels were
notorious for widespread crime, poverty, and being devoid of natural sunlight.

Republic architecture was an architectural style that demonstrated sweeping
lines. This particular design was prominently featured on the city-covered
planet of Coruscant, although by the time of the Clone Wars, the Republic
gradually adopted a brutalist or bold form of architecture. Introduced by
military architects such as Orson Krennic, it ultimately supplanted the Republic
style as the dominant architectural form of the Galactic Empire.

Galactic Basic Standard was the most prevalent language in the Republic, spoken
primarily by humans and the Pantorans. A heavily accented dialect of Basic, with
many differences in grammar and vocabulary, was spoken by the Gungans of Naboo.
The translation of the Sith language, known as ur-Kittât, was forbidden under
Galactic Republic law. Protocol droids were consequently programmed against
translating the language of the Sith. Darth Sidious believed that the Republic
outlawed ur-Kittât out of fear of the Sith Order and its knowledge.

Republic citizens turned away from galactic politics to follow escapist
pursuits.

The peaceful age of the Republic allowed the people of the galaxy to pursue
leisure activities, some of which achieved galactic-level attention. The Boonta
Eve Classic, while based on the independent Outer Rim world of Tatooine, beyond
the Republic frontier, received coverage and attention as far as the Core
Worlds. Prior to the Clone Wars, the Republic's twilight years became an era of
escapism as citizens of all classes sought entertaining distractions from their
daily lives. Professional podrace circuits and other circuses diverted the
people's attention from the growing corruption that permeated the Galactic
Senate. Nevertheless, the general public's fascination with various forms of
entertainment was driven by an innate desire for stories about good versus evil
and situations of escalating danger.

The Jedi Order eschewed prestige and celebrity, making them mysterious to the
Republic they served.

Whereas the Republic evolved through the centuries of its existence, the Jedi
Order remained rooted in its ancient traditions, effectively putting the Jedi
Code at odds with a galactic society that strongly favored the future over the
past. The inhabitants of the Core Worlds became fixated on notions of fame and
fashion, and had little interest in Jedi principles like faith and tradition.
The Order maintained its place in the Republic by relying on historic precedent,
serving as keepers of peace and justice. Unlike corporate institutions that
marketed their services to the greater galaxy, the Order had little desire to
promote itself through image-building. Aside from those who witnessed the Jedi's
heroics and were awed by their Force powers, the Order and its ways were forever
mysterious to the majority of the Republic citizenry. The Jedi were seen by the
public as an order of mystics at best and, at worst, regarded as a zealous sect
of warmongers.

A variant of the Republic crest was used during the Clone Wars.

As a result of territorial expansion, the Republic developed a sense of manifest
destiny. This cultural belief was cultivated by Republic propagandists who
sought to foster civic pride among the populace so that they would ultimately
feel duty-bound to support the Republic's expansion from rim to rim. There was
an exponential growth in Republic patriotism due to the Clone Wars and the
accompanying propaganda that promoted loyalty to the state. Patriotic messages
stirred an entire generation into action; however, they could not enlist in the
Grand Army as its ranks were exclusive to clone troopers. Nevertheless, Republic
citizens felt obliged to do their part by purchasing war bonds, reporting acts
of treason, and making sacrifices to support the war effort. The Republic crest,
the symbol of a united galaxy under the Force, was emblazoned on military war
machines and heraldry, featuring more prominently than before.

Although the Republic expanded into the Outer Rim Territories, the region was
too underdeveloped to have the same stability as the Core Worlds. As the
galaxy's largest region, the Outer Rim featured a myriad of diversity through
its various planets and species. The Republic government had little oversight
over the Outer Rim due to the region's distance from the Core, and as such the
Outer Rim remained known for its lawless, sparsely populated, and primitive
worlds. Republic law was virtually non-existent in the Outer Rim; as a result,
bounty hunters, outlaws and smugglers were able to operate with impunity, and
slavery was still practiced in spite of the Republic's anti-slave laws.

Xenophobia.

- Under Gunray's tenure, the Trade Federation would loudly counter such claims
  as common anti-Neimoidian prejudice.
 ―Janyor.

A popular stereotype of the Neimoidian race was the fat plutocrat who embodied
greed and treachery.

During the High Republic Era, Chancellor Soh wanted to promote unity amongst the
various species that made up the Republic, using the phrase "We are all the
Republic" to let the population know they were all part of the system; however,
xenophobia was an issue in a society as diverse as the Republic. Although the
Republic officially promoted unity among its member worlds and outlawed the
enslavement of sentient species, some people were subjected to racial
stereotypes. Neimoidians, for example, were considered obese, duplicitous and
avaricious by some, including those who harbored anti-corporate views. This
perception of their race was a product of Neimoidian culture, which cultivated a
"survival of the fittest" mentality in Neimoidian younglings.

The Trade Federation used xenophobic sentiments as a means to silence its
critics, insinuating that those who sought to curtail the Federation's massive
influence were prejudiced towards its Neimoidian leaders. The Muuns likewise had
an image problem due to their monopoly in the InterGalactic Banking Clan. In
general Muuns saw little need to build a relationship of stability and trust
with the galaxy; they simply assumed that their place in society was to continue
dominating galactic finances. Their cultural standards informed their business
practices; therefore, Muun-sponsored advertisements were viewed as "distant and
disconnected. "

During the Clone Wars, anti-alien prejudice grew as a result of the non-human
races that constituted the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Vice Chancellor
Mas Amedda sought to promote the Republic's multicultural aspect, having taken
notice of the attention given to human citizens by the Republic media. Rather
than reporting on Amedda's effort to showcase Republic diversity, HoloNet News
outlets focused on the Vice Chancellor's self-inclusion as the sole Chagrian in
an assembly of various aliens. The populace decried Amedda's message of strength
and unity, and considered him an egocentric narcissist.

The Clone Wars fueled the Republic population's anti-droid sentiment.

The Clone Wars also inflamed the population's anti-droid sentiment to new levels
due in no small part to the Separatists' reliance on battle droids. Droids had
long become commonplace in galactic society, and though machines had always been
the property of organics, the war cemented the view that droids were an
existential threat to biological life. The Republic capitalized on this
sentiment, using propaganda to illustrate droids as ruthless and dangerous tools
of destruction. While the the concept of "droid terror" was embodied by
battlefield machines, such as the B1-series battle droid, B2-series super battle
droid, and the droideka, administrative aide droids were viewed as a different
kind of "droid threat" to Republic security. There was a growing fear among the
Core's affluent population that the personal assistant droids of businessbeings
and government administrators could be co-opted through spyware and used for
Separatist espionage.

Despite the Jedi Order's millennia of service to the Republic, there was
widespread anti-Jedi sentiment as a result of the Clone Wars. The Sith plotted
to undermine the relationship between the Republic citizenry and their Jedi
guardians, using the Clone Wars to shake the Republic's faith in the Order. The
Order fought hard to bring a swift and decisive end to the conflict, but many
citizens believed that the Jedi were warmongers. This perception was able to
grow due in part to the Jedi's reluctance to accept accolades or embrace the
fame of their status. It was the Order's preference to serve but not engage the
populace; as such, the population's anti-Jedi views were the result of the
Order's cultural absence as opposed to an actual refutation of their ways.

Astrography.

- Republic wordsmiths and artists collaborated to create a sense of civic duty,
  of manifest destiny, and of deep obligation to spread the Republic banner from
  Rim to Rim.
 ―Janyor.

Coruscant, the capital of the Republic, was located in the heart of the Core
Worlds.

With Coruscant—birthplace of the human species —as its capital, the expansion of
the Galactic Republic occurred along pioneering hyperspace routes. Survey teams
established navigational beacons in outlying territories such as the Tertiary
Usaita system, allowing colonists from the Core Worlds to venture outward
towards the Outer Rim in search of opportunity and a better life.

The Galactic Republic existed across the known galaxy, stretching from the Core
Worlds to the Outer Rim Territories. The Core Worlds was the heartland of the
Republic, home to cosmopolitan worlds such as Coruscant and Hosnian Prime as
well as Alderaan, one of the oldest and most prestigious planets in the
Republic. Over time, Republic expansionism led to the annexation of new member
worlds. The planet Naboo, located in the Mid Rim, was annexed by the Republic in
867 BBY.

The Galactic Republic was a democratic union that spanned across the known
galaxy for a thousand years.

During the High Republic Era, during which time the Republic actively sought out
new hyperspace lanes and new member worlds in the Outer Rim, Chancellor Orlen
Mollo reflected on the positive paradox that was Republic expansion; with each
new hyperlane, the Republic grew while the galactic community became smaller. As
such, it was easier for the galaxy's planets to interact with each other. Beyond
prospecting new hyperspace routes, the Republic was also actively working to
expand communications into a functioning network in the Rim, attempting to
further alliances, and hoping to shut down brewing conflicts. The Republic
exerted most of its power from the Core Worlds to the borders of the Mid Rim, to
the extent that corporations conducted their legally dubious practices in
regions where the Republic held little sway despite the work done to bring those
worlds into the galactic community during the High Republic Era.

The Republic's colonization of the Outer Rim Territories was motivated by
overpopulation, poverty, and a sense of manifest destiny.

Faced with issues like overpopulation and poverty among the lower classes, the
Republic turned its attention to the Outer Rim, adopting a policy of expansion
toward the uncharted territories of the known galaxy's farthest frontier. Those
who inhabited the congested worlds of the galactic core were beckoned into deep
space by political and corporate sponsored messages of life filled with
adventure and mystery. Such a call to new horizons could be seen during the High
Republic Era, where brave citizens and families of the overpopulated Core and
Colonies worlds moved to the Outer Rim through the few well-mapped hyperspace
routes into the Rim. Still, the Outer Rim in specific could be home to dangers
like the Nihil who took advantage of the lack of Republic law, with the Nihil
waging war with the Republic for daring to enter their homelands. Into the late
Republic Era, the Outer Rim remained a region where the Republic held little
authority despite the work done in the High Republic period.

The Republic's dominion extended beyond the boundaries of the galaxy, reaching
as far as the extragalactic world of Kamino.

Although the Republic opposed secession, it effectively lost control over the
territories that formed the Separatist Alliance. Its territorial extent changed
numerous times over the course of the Clone Wars, with worlds lost and reclaimed
by the Grand Army of the Republic. However, the Republic also gained new
territory as a result of the war. Geonosis, the planet where the Separatist
Droid Army was secretly constructed, existed beyond the Republic's borders. The
Republic Military occupied the Geonosian homeworld after the First Battle of
Geonosis, and subsequently returned to reconquer the planet after it fell back
under Separatist control. The Kaminoan government formally joined the Republic;
as such, Kamino —an extragalactic planet —was accorded full representation in
the Galactic Senate, having supplied the Republic with its clone industry.

Behind the scenes.

The Galactic Republic was first mentioned in the new Star Wars canon as the "Old
Republic" through the 1977 film Star Wars : Episode IV A New Hope, directed by
George Lucas. The entity first appeared and was first identified as the
"Galactic Republic" in the 1999 film Star Wars : Episode I The Phantom Menace,
also directed by Lucas.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

William Shakespeare's The Phantom of Menace: Star Wars Part the First

LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales — " Exit from Endor "

LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales — " Crisis on Coruscant "

LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III (In flashback(s))

LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures — " A Hero Discovered " (Mentioned
only)

LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures — " Zander's Joyride " (Mentioned only)

LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures — " The Storms of Taul " (Mentioned
only)

LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures — " Escape from Coruscant " (Indirect
mention only)

LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season — " All I Want For Life Day "

LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season — " Carving Up the Competition "

Star Wars: Visions — " Lop & Ochō " (Mentioned only)

LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga

LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season — " Happy Celebration 45th Anniversary A
New Hope "

" Lop & Ochō " — Big Gangan Vol. 07 (Mentioned only)

" The Temple Ghost " — LEGO Star Wars 106 (Mentioned only)

" Stepping Up " — LEGO Star Wars 109

LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season — " Ahsoka's Amazing Adventures "

LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season — " Fett's Flying Lesson "

Sources.

Notes and references.

External links.

Galactic Republic on Wikipedia
