Jabba Desilijic Tiure.

- If I told you half the things I've heard about this Jabba the Hutt, you'd
  probably short-circuit!
 ―C-3PO.

Jabba Desilijic Tiure, more commonly referred to as Jabba the Hutt or simply
Jabba, and formally styled as His Excellency Jabba Desilijic Tiure of Nal Hutta,
Eminence of Tatooine, was a Hutt male gangster and crime lord, as well as a
leading member of the Grand Hutt Council and influential leader of the Hutt
Clan, who operated and led a criminal empire from his palace on the Outer Rim
world of Tatooine. Jabba was a major figure on Tatooine, where he controlled the
bulk of the piracy, slavery, and trafficking in illegal goods that generated
most of the planet's wealth. He was also highly influential in the entire Outer
Rim as one of its most powerful crime lords.

During the Clone Wars, Jabba's influence and power over the Outer Rim,
specifically its hyperlanes, was sought by both the Galactic Republic and the
Confederacy of Independent Systems, who both courted Jabba's approval. When
Rotta, Jabba's son, was kidnapped, the crime lord promised his support to
whoever returned his son. When the Separatists were revealed to have
orchestrated Rotta's kidnapping, Jabba pledged his support to the Republic.

Jabba continued to operate in the Outer Rim after the end of the Clone Wars and
the rise of the Galactic Empire, preserving his power base, despite the
interference of Darth Sidious, the Galactic Emperor. After the destruction of
the Death Star by the Rebel Alliance, the Emperor sent Darth Vader to negotiate
a deal with Jabba to secure raw materials for Imperial military production.
Jabba's alliance with the Empire allowed him and the Hutts to resist the
Imperial crackdown against criminal elements in the Outer Rim, as well as rid
the Hutt of his competitors.

After the smuggler Han Solo failed to repay him for lost cargo, Jabba placed a
high price on his head. Solo was eventually delivered to him by one of his
bounty hunters, Boba Fett, as a gift from Darth Vader. However, this capture
brought him to the attention of Jedi Knight Luke Skywalker, who sought to rescue
his friend from Jabba's imprisonment. As he attempted to execute the Jedi and
his allies in the Great Pit of Carkoon, Jabba was choked to death by Leia
Organa. With the Hutts unable to decide who would inherit Jabba's criminal
ventures, many of his slaves, including the Niktos, were free, and his palace
was occupied by his former Majordomo Bib Fortuna, who took his place as Daimyo
of Tatooine until Fett killed and usurped him. Fett sought to rebuild Jabba's
criminal empire in his own image, intending to rule with respect rather than the
fear that the Hutt instilled in his followers.

Biography.

Tatooine Crime Lord.

Jabba ruled over the planet Tatooine as its Daimyo from his palace (pictured).

Jabba Desilijic Tiure was a Hutt who hailed from Nal Hutta. He was born in 600
BBY. He was the grandson of Mama and Papa the Hutts, and the nephew of Ziro and
Ebor, as they were the siblings of his father. His mother left enough of a mark
on him that, years later, he would force the Askajian dancer Yarna d'al' Gargan
to wear special makeup to make her look more like his genitrix. He also had a
cousin named Crakka and a nephew named Gorga.

Several centuries before the Galactic Civil War, he became the reigning crime
lord in the Outer Rim, owning several criminal enterprises which included
smuggling, glitterstim spice dealing, slave trading, assassination and piracy.
At some point, Jabba became affiliated with the Crymorah Syndicate. As a result
of his collaboration with the Crymorah, he gained a position on the Grand Hutt
Council. As a crime lord, Jabba based his illicit operation out of his palace in
the Northern Dune Sea of the desert world Tatooine, from where he spread his
operations and influence across the Outer Rim by employing a network of
smugglers who moved his goods across the galaxy.

Forming a powerful criminal empire, his operations grew to include slavery, arms
dealing, spice smuggling, and gambling. Gambling was a prominent feature of the
Mos Espa Grand Arena, where Jabba controlled the gambling and concessions during
the popular podraces. The spice trade was a major part of Jabba's empire,
becoming one of the primary ways the Hutt made money. To those who respected his
authority, very few, he was formally styled as "His Excellency Jabba Desilijic
Tiure of Nal Hutta, Eminence of Tatooine. "

The High Republic.

The Hynestian Treaty.

Jabba worked with other Hutts to incite a skirmish on Hynestia, though they were
stopped by the Jedi (pictured).

Years before the Great Disaster, Jabba, along with other Hutts, attended a
banquet on Hynestia as part of a treaty negotiation between the Hynestian royal
family and the Grand Hutt Council. The Hutts planted Povo Punch in the drink
menu as a means of inciting a diplomatic incident. When Jedi Master Lynela Kabe-
Oyu, Stellan Gios, and his padawan Vernestra Rwoh, noticed the Povo Punch and
attempted to save the Hutts, the Hutts opened fire on the banquet, claiming that
the incident was an insult that justified violent action against Hynestia.

After the Jedi settled the situation, Jabba and his fellow Hutts attempted to
escape, only to be stopped by the Jedi themselves. Queen Nyla, Ruler of
Hynestia, stepped in to officially capture Jabba and his fellow Hutt
conspirators for attempting to disrupt the treaty and to assassinate attendees
of the diplomatic banquet, putting him for ransom to the Hutt Council.

Later years of the Republic.

Boonta Eve Classic.

Jabba hosted the Boonta Eve Classic podrace in 32 BBY.

Shortly after the start of the Invasion of Naboo in 32 BBY, Jabba presided over
the Boonta Eve Classic podrace, where his entrance in the stands was greeted
with cheers from the spectators who came to watch the race from all corners of
the Outer Rim Territories. Jabba signaled the start of the race, and the
podracers began their laps, at the end of which Anakin Skywalker, a young slave
from Mos Espa, emerged victorious. Jabba had to be awoken after falling asleep
during the race, as podracing did not entertain him—aside from the gambling
involved.

Alliance with the Republic.

- Perhaps now, you will allow the Republic to use your trade routes and
  hostilities can come to an end.
- Jabba agrees. A treaty is in order.
 ―Senator Padmé Amidala and TC-70, the latter of whom spoke for Jabba.

Ten years after the Naboo Crisis, the galaxy was plunged into the chaos of the
Clone Wars, a massive galactic conflict between the Grand Army of the Republic
and the droid armies of the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Shortly after
the outbreak of the war, Jabba's infant son, Rotta, was kidnapped. Though Jabba
did not know who the kidnapper was, it was carried out by his uncle, Ziro, and
the Separatist Alliance, both of whom had their own schemes at play. Jabba
requested the assistance of anyone who could help, and the Republic and the Jedi
Order answered the call. It was the hope of Supreme Chancellor Palpatine that
the Republic would be able to negotiate an alliance with Jabba for use of Hutt
hyperspace lanes in the Outer Rim, as the Separatists controlled the major
lanes.

Jabba requested the Republic's aid in finding his kidnapped son, Rotta.

The Jedi sent General Anakin Skywalker, who had become a Jedi Knight in the
years since his victory in the Boonta Eve Classic, and his Padawan, Ahsoka Tano,
to the Teth system to find Rotta. Meanwhile, General Obi-Wan Kenobi traveled to
Tatooine to personally negotiate a treaty with Jabba. While the Jedi Master was
en route, Jabba was presented with the heads of bounty hunters he had sent to
Teth to find his son. Infuriated by the lack of progress, Jabba contacted
Chancellor Palpatine and, through his translator droid, TC-70, demanded to know
why the Jedi were not searching for his son. The chancellor assured the crime
lord that the Jedi were on their way, of which Jabba said the treaty with him
depended on.

Kenobi soon arrived at Jabba's Palace and was taken before the Hutt's court.
Kenobi told Jabba that Skywalker, who he described as one of the Order's most
powerful Jedi, was on his way to Teth to rescue Rotta and that the Jedi would
not let the Hutt down. Jabba attached one additional condition to the proposed
treaty—that the Jedi deliver him the kidnapper as well, dead or alive. Jabba
also leveled a threat against the Jedi: if they did not succeed, the Separatist
leader Count Dooku and the Separatist Droid Army would—still not knowing that
Dooku himself was behind the kidnapping, in a plot to turn the Hutt Clan into an
enemy of the Republic. Kenobi departed the palace, which was followed by the
arrival of Count Dooku himself. The Sith Lord claimed that it was the Jedi who
kidnapped Rotta and that the Jedi were plotting to destroy Jabba. Jabba demanded
proof, which Dooku delivered in the form of a manipulated holographic recording
allegedly showing Skywalker and Tano, who had found Rotta on Teth, harming the
child, when in reality they were caring for it after he had fallen ill. Dooku
told the crime lord that the Separatist Droid Army was initiating a rescue
mission and would soon deliver the Huttlet to his father. All Dooku asked in
return was that Jabba join the Separatist cause.

Dooku's Sith acolyte, Asajj Ventress, contacted the count, who played her
message in front of Jabba and his court. Ventress claimed that Skywalker killed
Rotta and was on his way to Tatooine. Jabba questioned why the Jedi would come
to Tatooine, to which Dooku said that the Jedi plot had become clear and that
Skywalker would soon arrive to kill the crime lord and wipe out the entire Hutt
Clan. Dooku promised Jabba that he would personally deal with Skywalker and,
despite fighting the Jedi Knight in a lightsaber duel in the desert, Skywalker
managed to reach Jabba's Palace. Once there, Skywalker found that Tano, who had
Rotta and from whom he had become separated, had not yet reached the palace.
Jabba's henchmen drew their weapons on Skywalker, so the Jedi Knight drew his
lightsaber and pointed it at Jabba—seemingly confirming Dooku's claims. Jabba
said that this was proof that Skywalker had arrived to kill him, but the Jedi
said he had only come to negotiate. Just as Jabba's henchmen prepared to kill
Skywalker, Tano arrived and delivered Rotta to his father.

Jabba uncovered the truth behind his son's kidnapping from Republic Senator
Padmé Amidala

Despite the happy reunion with his son, Jabba ordered Skywalker and Tano's
execution due to believing they kidnapped his son. They were saved, however, by
a message from Senator Padmé Amidala of Naboo, who had discovered Ziro's
involvement in the plot. Ziro entered the holographic transmission and admitted
to conspiring with Dooku to kidnap Rotta and frame the Jedi, so Jabba told the
senator that the Hutt Clan would severely punish Ziro. Amidala asked him if the
hostilities between Jabba and the Jedi could cease and if he would open his
hyperspace lanes to the Republic, to which Jabba agreed. The two sides signed a
treaty allowing the Grand Army of the Republic through Jabba's territories, a
decision Amidala assured him he would not regret. Grand Master Yoda and clone
forces soon arrived at Jabba's Palace, signaling a new era of cooperation
between the Republic and Jabba the Hutt.

Eliminating Ziro.

- Jabba thanks you for delivering the holo-diary.
 ―TC-70, to Sy Snootles.

Later in the war, Jabba was visited by Baron Notluwiski Papanoida, the chairman
of the moon Pantora, whose daughters, Che Amanwe Papanoida and Chi Eekway
Papanoida, had been kidnapped by Greedo, a bounty hunter in Jabba's employ. The
chairman was able to reason with the Hutt crime lord, who, like Papanoida, knew
all too well what it was like to have his child taken from him. Greedo insisted
that he was not responsible, but Jabba allowed a blood sample to be taken from
his bounty hunter so it could be compared to blood found at the scene of the
crime. Greedo admitted to kidnapping the chairman's daughters at the behest of
the Separatists, who wanted leverage against the Pantorans, and Papanoida was
soon reunited with his children.

Shortly thereafter, the Grand Hutt Council became concerned that Ziro, who was
in Galactic Republic custody, was planning on turning over incriminating
evidence about the council's illicit activity, as the imprisoned Hutt had a
journal secretly hidden on Teth that contained the evidence. Jabba hired bounty
hunter Cad Bane to free Ziro from prison, so he could be imprisoned by the Hutt
Clan instead. Bane took members of the Galactic Senate hostage inside the Senate
Building, offering their safety in return for Ziro's freedom. Chancellor
Palpatine refused the demands, but Palpatine soon changed his mind and allowed
Ziro to be freed. Bane brought Ziro to the Grand Hutt Council on Nal Hutta,
where Ziro was imprisoned once more, though Jabba himself was not present.
Gardulla Besadii the Elder instead acted as a representative.

Sy Snootles hands Ziro's records over to Jabba

Jabba instead planned Ziro's elimination. He hired Ziro's old girlfriend, the
singer Sy Snootles, to find the records and eliminate Ziro. Snootles freed Ziro
from his imprisonment and tricked him into believing that she was on his side,
so he brought her to Teth where he planned to recover his records. Once there,
however, Snootles killed the crime lord and brought the records to Jabba, who
expressed his gratitude for her work.

Forced into the Shadow Collective.

- The mighty Jabba and the Hutt families have decided to join you.
 ― Jabba's GL vendor droid.

Jabba Desilijic Tiure later found himself roped into the schemes of Maul, a
renegade Sith Lord who hoped to regain the status he lost after his defeat
during the Battle of Naboo over a decade earlier. As part of his plan, Maul
formed the Shadow Collective, an alliance between the Mandalorian faction Death
Watch and various elements from the criminal underworld, including Black Sun and
the Pyke Syndicate. Their goal was to take over the planet Mandalore. Despite
their combined might, the Shadow Collective still required additional resources,
including muscle and supplies, to achieve their goal. To find these resources,
they went before the Grand Hutt Council to negotiate an alliance between the
Hutt Clan and the Shadow Collective. Maul, his brother Savage Opress, and Death
Watch leader Pre Vizsla met with the Hutt leaders, where Maul negotiated the
terms and conditions of the alliance with Jabba himself. The Hutts wanted to
know what they could offer and how much their assistance was worth. Maul
proposed an exchange: in return for Hutt Space and everything in its borders, he
would spare their lives. Jabba and the Council were dismissive of Maul's
threats, which resulted in a skirmish between the Shadow Collective and the
Grand Hutt Council's forces. Maul, Opress, and Vizsla fought off various
enforcers and bounty hunters, until their Death Watch reinforcements arrived.
With the additional troops, Maul, Vizsla and Opress were able to rout the enemy
forces and secure a victory.

Jabba was forced into joining Maul's Shadow Collective, though the alliance
would not last for long

Although the Collective was triumphant, the ensuing conflict and chaos allowed
all but one Hutt to escape— Oruba. Maul interrogated Oruba, threatening to kill
him unless he revealed where the others had escaped to. Under duress, Oruba
informed Maul that he could find Jabba in his palace on Tatooine. The Shadow
Collective soon arrived, facing little resistance as they made their way into
Jabba's court. Maul ordered Jabba and the council to submit to his demands and
join the Shadow Collective, lest they suffer his wrath. With little choice in
the matter, Jabba agreed to assist the Shadow Collective in its takeover of
Mandalore. The resources the Hutt Clan provided aided the Shadow Collective in
its successful takeover of Mandalore, with Maul declaring himself the new leader
of Mandalore. However, the Sith Lord Darth Sidious—secretly Chancellor Palpatine
himself —came to regard Maul as a threat and targeted the Shadow Collective. The
group fractured under assault by the Sith and their Separatist puppets, and
Maul's plan was resoundingly defeated by Darth Sidious.

Age of the Empire.

Crime amid tyranny.

- Jabba, you're a wonderful human being.
 ―Han Solo, after Jabba extended the time he had to repay his debts.

Jabba and Solo discussed the smuggler's debt in Mos Eisley.

At the end of the Clone Wars, the Republic was transformed into the Galactic
Empire, and the chancellor declared himself Emperor. Jabba continued his illicit
operations during the Age of the Empire, continuing to hold influence as a crime
lord. Around one year into the Empire's reign, former Padawan Ahsoka Tano
decided against going to Jabba for help while avoiding the Imperial Military,
deciding the Hutt would not help her despite her role in saving his son during
the Clone Wars.

When the human Jaylen Vrax ran a smuggling ring on Nar Shaddaa, he prospered for
years, delivering a portion of the profits as tribute to Grakkus the Hutt, a
very powerful figure on the moon. However, this brought a change for ND-5, a BX-
series commando droid under his control, when Jabba appeared, as they used his
hyperlines. To repayment Jabba, who was impressed when ND-5 blasted two of his
guards when the Hutt threatened Vrax, Jaylen sold ND-5's services to him. ND-5
worked for Jabba until Jaylen began planning his score on Sliro Barsha. However,
the debt that now belonged to the droid was still unpaid.

During a particularly bad drought on Tatooine, Jabba began collecting a hefty
water tax from local moisture farmers. This earned his thugs an unpleasant
encounter with Obi-Wan Kenobi, who was watching and protecting a young Luke
Skywalker. When Skywalker attempted to steal the thugs' collections for the day,
they caught and threatened to kill him. It was at that moment that Kenobi took
down the thugs with the Force. Under cover of darkness, the gangsters were
unable to identify Kenobi. Most displeased with his loss of tax revenue, Jabba
hired the Wookiee bounty hunter Krrsantan to track down and identify the former
Jedi Master.

Street orphan and later rebel Jedi Ezra Bridger often identified himself as
"Jabba" when he wanted to keep his real name secret, for example to Imperial
officers.

In 10 BBY, the scoundrel Tobias Beckett came into contact with Jabba and
intended to travel to Tatooine to work for him once he decided to leave Crimson
Dawn, but he was killed by Han Solo at Savareen before that could come to be. As
such, Jabba hired Solo for his operations, who became the best smuggler on
Jabba's payroll. Solo's standing was jeopardized, however, when his ship, the
Millennium Falcon, was boarded by Imperial authorities, forcing Solo to jettison
his cargo. Jabba demanded compensation for the lost cargo and, when Solo could
not pay, the crime lord sent bounty hunters after him. One such hunter was
Greedo, who confronted Solo in a cantina in Mos Eisley in 1 BBY, but Solo killed
the Rodian bounty hunter before he could kill Solo. Jabba learned of this and
found Solo in Docking Bay 94, where the smuggler said that he had no choice but
to dump his cargo. Jabba agreed to give Solo an extension on the payment in
exchange for fifteen percent interest. Solo accepted the offer, but he soon
became involved in the Alliance to Restore the Republic and once again failed to
pay Jabba. When Jabba learned that Solo had joined the Rebellion, Jabba placed a
large bounty on the smuggler's head.

By 1 BBY, the exceptional bounty hunting skills of the Snivvian Zutton had
caught Jabba's attention, and he put his services on retainer.

Shortly after the Battle of Yavin, in which the Alliance with Solo's help
;destroyed the Imperial, planet-destroying battle station known as the Death
Star, the Empire was left in dire need of additional military resources. To
increase its supply of weapons, the Empire planned to negotiate with an envoy in
Jabba's employ on Cymoon 1, in the Corellian Industrial Cluster. The Sith Lord
Darth Vader—formerly Anakin Skywalker —was tasked as the Imperial negotiator,
with the intent of forcing Jabba's envoy in a deal favorable to the Empire. The
envoy's vessel was hijacked by the Rebel Alliance, however, and a team of
Rebels, including Solo, used it to assault and destroy Weapons Factory Alpha on
Cymoon 1, leveling another critical defeat against the Empire.

Darth Vader held a secret meeting with Jabba, unbeknownst to the Emperor.

The Emperor ordered Vader to travel to Tatooine and negotiate with Jabba
personally. The Sith Lord arrived a day ahead of schedule, using his early
arrival to carry out a personal mission in Jabba's Palace. Vader told Jabba that
he would return on official Imperial business the next day, but, for that
moment, he wanted to discuss his own mission. Jabba believed that Vader would
attempt to use a mind trick to force him into doing the Dark Lord's will, but
Vader said he would not, as mind tricks were not the way of the Sith. Jabba
briefly considered collecting the bounty that the Rebel Alliance placed on
Vader's head and throwing him into a rancor pit beneath his court, but he opted
not to once he realized Vader was aware of the trap. Jabba continued his
discussions with Vader and incorrectly referred to the Sith Lord as a Jedi,
resulting in Vader igniting his lightsaber and becoming a target of Jabba's
henchmen. The Dark Lord wiped many of the guards out before using the Force to
choke Jabba, an attack that left the crime lord more amenable to Vader's
demands. With Jabba ready to comply, Vader explained that he needed two of
Jabba's best bounty hunters to work on a personal mission. Jabba agreed to the
demands and provided him with Boba Fett and Black Krrsantan.

As promised, Vader returned to Jabba's court the next day to continue the
official negotiations on behalf of the Empire. The negotiations concluded with
Jabba agreeing to provide the Imperial war machine with whatever resources it
required. Jabba requested only that the Emperor pay him well, to which Vader
said that the Empire would pay him whatever they felt was appropriate.
Additionally, as long as Jabba complied with Imperial demands, the Empire would
allow Jabba to continue operating his criminal empire. Jabba convinced Vader to
briefly stay on Tatooine for a feast and entertainment in the Sith Lord's honor,
and the entertainment proved to be the hunting of wild bantha. Jabba hosted the
Sith Lord on his sail barge, where Jabba inquired as to whether the two bounty
hunters had proven themselves useful thus far. Vader stated that their missions
would be simple enough: capture an Imperial agent working for the Emperor, and
locate the pilot who destroyed the Death Star. Vader also demanded to know
everything that Jabba knew about Obi-Wan Kenobi, who lived in exile on Tatooine
for nearly two decades. Jabba told him only that Kenobi had proven to be a thorn
in his side in those years.

The thirteen crates.

- The great Jabba thinks perhaps you know this, because
- are the one who stole it. You were, after all, once the wife of the coward
- , were you not?
 ―Jabba's protocol droid to Sana Starros.

After the smuggler Sana Starros sold a crate of stolen Imperial blasters for 5,
000 credits to a gang of Krawg pirates and the name and location of the blasters
for 20, 000 credits to an Imperial office on Coruscant with Lando Calrissian,
they turned to Jabba to buy twelve boxes of blasters, since Starros had in fact
just stolen one box and sold them to the pirates; the other twelve were stolen
by Jabba's men from an abandoned Imperial ship over Tatooine. Jabba initially
told them that he did not deal with such weapons, as this was prohibited by
Imperial law. When Starros asked him about the twelve crates, Jabba said that
perhaps Starros herself could be the thief, and referred to her relationship
with Han Solo. Starros said that she had no relationship with Solo and then
demanded 20, 000 credits for the names of the thieves, who, according to her,
were the Krawg pirates. At the same moment, a Krawg pirate appeared behind them
and accused them of lying, but was shot dead by Starros. He carried one of the
blasters, so Jabba believed and paid her. Starros on the other hand stole the
Hutt the other twelve crates.

Tusken wine affair.

- The desert wine is sacred to the Tuskens. They won't sell it. And if you try
  to steal it, you could start a war. And that's bad for business. You spread
  the word. Tell all your bottom-feeder friends. If you meddle…especially if you
  try to ambush the Tuskens and steal their sacred wine during their night
  prayers at high moon on the Great Dune…you will die.
 ―Jabba the Hutt manipulating two traders.

Jabba would manipulate multiple factions into fighting to obtain the Tusken's
sacred Desert wine (pictured) which the Hutt would then sell for 10, 000 credits
per bottle.

At one point, a Rodian male and a human male sought out Jabba in his palace to
get some Tusken wine from him, after discovering that it was extremely popular
within the high society of Canto Bight on Cantonica. There they saw several
Tusken Raiders, who demanded that Jabba should prevent Jawas and Imperials from
continuing to enter their dunes. However, Jabba did not care about their
problems, made fun of them, and eventually threatened them indirectly, but
finally assured them that he would take care of the matter. When Cantonica's two
traders put forth their requests, Jabba presented them a purchase, but refused
to give it to them, emphasizing that this was the only quantity of desert wine
on Tatooine and they should not come up with the idea of stealing the Tuskens'
property during one of their night prayer at highmoon at the Great Dune, because
then they would die.

However, in a bar in Mos Eisley the traders decided to steal the desert wine,
especially since the price had risen. They were overheard by a Jawa, who went
immediately to his people to tell them about the expensive wine. However, they
were watched by an Imperial droid, who in turn informed an Imperial captain
about the wine. During the night, the two traders went to the Great Dune, where
they discovered that there were no Tuskens. Soon after, a few Jawas with battle
droids appeared as well as Imperial stormtroopers with their captain. They all
demanded that each other lower their weapons. Before shots were fired, the
Rodian tried to convince all parties that there desert wine and someone had
planned for them to be there. At that moment, the Imperial captain was shot dead
by Boba Fett, who was hiding in the dunes. Thereupon carnage broke out, which
the Tuskens, who had pitched their camp a few yards away, noticed. The next day,
the Tuskens rode their banthas to Jabba's palace, dragging corpses of
stormtroopers behind them. At the palace, they were briefly stopped by Bib
Fortuna and some Gamorrean guards, but Jabba ordered his people to lower their
weapons and accepted the tribute of the Tuskens to him.

Shortly thereafter, he was informed by Fortuna that a Coruscant cartel had found
a way to artificially produce the desert wine, and now the wine was worthless,
according to Fortuna. Jabba told his majordomo that he was a fool, took a
massive gulp of the wine, and dropped the empty container to the ground,
proclaiming that it was priceless.

Getting back at Han Solo.

- You may take Captain Solo to Jabba the Hutt after I have Skywalker.
- He's no good to me dead.
- He will not be permanently damaged.
 ―Darth Vader and Boba Fett.

Jabba with a carbon-frozen Han Solo: his new favorite decoration

Three years after the Battle of Yavin, Fett was once again hired by Darth Vader
to track down the Millennium Falcon, which Vader used in his hunt for Luke
Skywalker—who he had discovered was the pilot who destroyed the Death Star. The
resulting capture of the Rebel vessel led to Solo's capture at Cloud City,
Bespin, and he was frozen in carbonite as a test to ensure the process would
work on Skywalker despite Fett's concerns that Solo could result killed. Despite
Vader's promises to compensate him if Solo died, Solo survived with no harm and
Fett was given the frozen smuggler to take him to Jabba so he could claim the
bounty in exchange for his services to the Empire. Solo's friends tried to
rescue him, but ultimately failed and Fett left with Solo aboard Slave I.

Shortly after the Empire's takeover of Cloud City, Lando Calrissian went to
Tatooine alongside Chewbacca, Solo's Wookiee companion, aboard the Millennium
Falcon to check if Fett had already delivered Solo to Jabba so in case he
hadn't, they could look for leads on Fett. Tricking the Harlok Gang into
escorting them to Jabba's Palace after they saved them from a group of TIE
starfighters by saying them that as Baron Administrator of Cloud City he wanted
to negotiate with Jabba a deal for shipments of tibanna gas, Calrissian was
brought to Jabba's Palace. After waiting for a while, Calrissian was brought
before Jabba by Biff Fortuna. For his relief, Calrissian learned that Solo
hadn't been delivered yet, as Fett was nowhere to be seen and Jabba didn't know
about Solo's capture.

However, Jabba demanded to know why Calrissian had lied to the Harlok Gang, as
no tibanna arrangement between them had taken place and he had lost his position
as Baron Administrator since the Imperial takeover. Calrissian admitted his ruse
and proposed Jabba to lend him some of his fighters to take back Cloud City and
give him tibanna gas at a good price, only to learn that Jabba had already made
a tibanna deal with the Empire. Acknowledging that the former Baron
Administrator had arrived on Tatooine with the Millennium Falcon, Jabba decided
to take the Falcon as a partial payment and feed Calrissian to his rancor unless
he had something else useful to offer. Desperate, Calrissian offered Jabba the
knowledge of who had Solo in possession, but Jabba required more. With nothing
more to offer, Calrissian told Jabba that he was currently working with the
Rebellion, so he could tip him off from any information he desired to know.

The only leader.

- Since the Hutt Council was destroyed, Jabba became the most powerful Hutt in
  the galaxy. To get anything done in Hutt territory, one has to pay
  tribute.""Tribute? Like credits?""Among other things. Strange creatures,
  unique foods, whatever interests him.
 ―ND-5 and Kay Vess.

With Vader's slaughter of the Grand Hutt Council (pictured) Jabba became the
sole leader of the Hutt Clans.

During Bokku the Hutt's strike against the Empire, as Bokku was truly an agent
of the reemerging Crimson Dawn syndicate, Vader boarded the War barge of the
Hutt Council and butchered the council members aboard to end the attack. Vader's
massacre left Jabba the only surviving member of the Hutt Council, thus giving
him complete control over the Hutt Clans. Afterward, Fett brought Solo to
Tatooine, where he collected the bounty Jabba placed on Solo's head. For a year,
Solo was kept encased in carbonite and displayed in Jabba's court, as Jabba
decided it was his favorite decoration. Unknown to Jabba at the time was that
Solo's friends were plotting his rescue.

Discovering a spy.

- Zerek Besh has a spy in my palace. Break into the Bestine Compound. Bring me a
  name.
 ―Jabba the Hutt to Kay Vess and Vail Tormin.

Jabba sent Vess and Tormin to discover the identity of a spy in the ranks of the
Hutt Clan at his palace.

When Nix, a creature of the rare merqaal species, was stolen and ended up in
Jabba's possession, criminal Kay Vess broke into Jabba's Palace to recover her
companion. Nix showed aggression towards Jabba by attacking him. After a
conflict, Jabba decided to send Vess along with Vail Tormin, a bounty hunter who
was after Vess and tried to escape from the Palace with her, to discover the
identity of a spy that the crime syndicate Zerek Besh placed in Jabba's Palace.
In return, Jabba would forgive the two of them for the confusion at the Palace,
return Nix, and allow the two of them to leave Tatooine alive. The mission was a
success and the spy was discovered. Jabba decided to collect on the debt that
Vess' fellow BX commando droid, ND-5, owed him, sending Vess to acquire
compromising information against Governor Thorden, an Imperial who had great
control over the Empire's presence on the moon Toshara. Jabba intended to use
the information to force Thorden to use his control over the moon to favor the
Hutt Cartel, thus gaining an advantage over the Pyke Syndicate, which controlled
almost all of Toshara. Vess was successful and delivered the information to
Jabba at his palace.

Slaying of the Hutt.

- I am taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either profit by this or be
  destroyed. It's your choice, but I warn you not to underestimate my powers.
 ―Luke Skywalker to Jabba the Hutt.

The plan to rescue Solo was put in place upon the arrival of the protocol droid
C-3PO and astromech droid R2-D2. R2 carried with him a message from Skywalker,
who declared himself a Jedi Knight and announced his intention to bargain for
Solo's life. The young Jedi said he would arrive soon, and he offered the two
droids as a gift for the crime lord. Jabba boasted that there would be no
bargain, however, and conscripted the two droids into his service. 3PO became
his new translator, while R2 would serve drinks on Jabba's sail barge.

Jabba licked Leia Organa after discovering her true identity.

Later, during a performance of the song " Jedi Rocks " by the Max Rebo Band,
Jabba's personal dancer, Oola, resisted his advances toward her, and the Hutt
activated the trapdoor and sent her to her death in the rancor pit. The chaotic
moment was followed by the arrival of Princess Leia Organa, who, as part of the
rescue plan, came disguised as the bounty hunter Boushh and brought Chewbacca as
her "prisoner. " Tipped off by Boba Fett, Jabba knew it was not really Boushh
under the helmet, but he thought the impostor was just a short lowlife smuggler.
The disguised Organa demanded the bounty on the Wookiee's head and insisted on
50, 000 credits, which Jabba balked at. Organa threatened him with a detonator,
leading Jabba to compliment Boushh, and the two agreed on 35, 000 credits.
Chewbacca was imprisoned in Jabba's dungeons, while Organa waited in the palace
so she could free Solo after the court had gone to sleep.

Organa freed Solo from carbonite that evening, but Jabba and his court
discovered them. Despite being upset about losing his prized decoration, Jabba
was delighted to find that Boushh's imposter was a human woman. Solo tried to
bargain with the gangster, saying he was on his way to pay Jabba when Fett
captured him, but Jabba said it was too late to pay him and imprisoned Solo.
Meanwhile, having decided that Organa would replace Oola as his favorite slave
dancer, Jabba ordered his guards to bring her to him. Ignoring the princess's
threats, Jabba licked Organa's face. He then sent his servants, Jess and
Damaris, to prepare Organa for enslavement. After she was cleaned and dressed in
a dancing-girl costume, Organa was chained to Jabba's throne and forced to sit
by his side. Throughout the night, Organa kicked and shoved at Jabba whenever he
tried to draw her closer, but eventually they both became exhausted and fell
asleep.

Luke Skywalker attempted to bargain with Jabba, offering the Hutt a chance to
release his friends peacefully.

The next morning, Jabba and his thugs were awoken by Skywalker's arrival at the
palace. Skywalker was able to gain entry by using a mind trick on Fortuna,
despite Jabba's strict orders not to admit the Jedi. Skywalker demanded that
Jabba free Solo and his friends, or else face his destruction. Jabba refused,
causing Skywalker to pull a blaster on him, at which point Jabba activated the
trapdoor and sent Skywalker and a Gamorrean guard into the rancor pit. The
rancor ate the guard, but Skywalker was able to kill the beast, infuriating the
gangster. In his anger, Jabba choked Organa and demanded that Solo and Chewbacca
be brought before him.

As revenge for the outrage, Jabba sentenced Skywalker, Solo, and Chewbacca were
to be executed by being fed to the sarlacc, a creature that dwelled in the Great
Pit of Carkoon. Meanwhile, Organa was to remain enslaved to the Hutt, as Jabba
found her attractive. Jabba and his court traveled to the Great Pit of Carkoon
on his sail barge, while the prisoners were transported on a smaller skiff. On
the way, Jabba briefly allowed Organa to leave his side so that she could watch
her friends from a window, but later recalled her to his throne to inform her
that she would soon learn to appreciate him. Jabba toasted his plans by sharing
his drink with Organa.

Jabba's corpse after being strangled to death by Organa.

Upon arriving at Carkoon, Jabba gave his prisoners a chance to beg for mercy.
Solo balked at the suggestion while Skywalker offered one last opportunity to
free them and threatened to kill Jabba if he did not, much to Jabba and his
guest's amusement. The crime lord refused and ordered the prisoners into the
pit, but R2 revealed Skywalker's hidden lightsaber, and the Jedi attacked
Jabba's thugs. The growing battle led to chaos on Jabba's sail barge, as his
enforcers attempted to kill the Jedi and the Rebels. In the ensuing panic,
Organa, after smashing Jabba's control panel and disabling the lights in the
room, wrapped the chain she was bound in around Jabba's neck and strangled him
to death, bringing an end to the criminal reign of Jabba the Hutt. After his
death, Solo and his friends escaped, and Jabba's corpse was blown up when his
sail barge exploded over the sarlacc pit.

Legacy.

- Jabba the Hutt once sat upon that throne. His reign ended in a ball of fire on
  the Dune Sea and then Bib Fortuna took his place. You were all once captains
  under the Hutt. But you quickly left the family when Fortuna claimed to be the
  heir. He was a terrible leader with no right to the throne. Oh, you each tried
  to take his place, but were thwarted by his guile and treachery. It took this
  man, Boba Fett, to remove him. You all accrued wealth and riches under Jabba
  the Hutt. You can again, if you listen to Boba Fett.
 ―Fennec Shand, to Jabba's former captains.

Jabba Juice was a non-alcoholic beverage named after the late gangster and sold
at Olga's Cantina on Batuu into the rise of the First Order.

After Jabba's demise, the Hutts were left to determine who would fill Jabba's
seat and take up the reins of his criminal empire. Several months after Solo's
rescue, a decision had yet to be made. Immediately following Jabba's demise, in
order to determine the exact nature of the Hutt's death and settle the debate
over the matter of his will, the Hutt Clan had the wreckage of the Khetanna
examined. What they found was only a holorecording of Organa choking Jabba in
his last moments. Most of the circulated copies of this footage and their
vendors were hunted down by the Clan to prevent proof of their own vulnerability
from circulating.

Many of Jabba's slaves were freed after the battle at Carkoon, leading the
prominently enslaved Niktos to admire Organa for choking the Hutt, earning her
the nickname "Huttslayer. " Coupled with the Empire's collapse, Jabba's death
left enormous power vacuums in the Kessel spice trade, leaving trade routes once
guarded by Hutt-hired mercenaries vulnerable. Over the years following Jabba's
death, a Huttese song known as " Jabba Flow, " composed by the Shag Kava band,
was named after Jabba as was a non- alcoholic beverage known as " Jabba Juice. "

With his death, Jabba's territory on Tatooine would be contested by many
factions, though Boba Fett would successfully become the new Daimyo of Tatooine.

Bib Fortuna returned to the palace and took over Jabba's criminal operations. In
9 ABY, Boba Fett, joined by his accomplice Fennec Shand, stormed the palace.
Fett slayed Fortuna and took control of the remnants of Jabba's criminal empire.
Jabba's cousins " the Twins " attempted to take control of his territory, but
they fled Tatooine upon learning the Pyke Syndicate was moving in. Standing his
ground, Fett and his allies overcame the Pykes, claiming Tatooine as the former
bounty hunter's domain.

During his self-imposed exile on Ahch-To, the Jedi Master Luke Skywalker had a
dream where he ignored Organa's message and never joined the Rebellion and never
caused Jabba's death. In his dream, Jabba was still operating on Tatooine
following Skywalker's marriage to Camie Marstrap and was still charging water
taxes to moisture farmers.

Personality and traits.

- When you have lived as long as
- have, you learn that
- is easily forgotten. But
- Never.
 ―Jabba the Hutt, to Boba Fett.

Jabba was known for his gluttonous appetites.

Leader of one of the most famous cartels in the galaxy, Jabba Desilijic Tiure
technically controlled Tatooine's underworld. He was legendary for his vicious
temper, endless greed, gruesome appetite and fondness for violent entertainment.
Because of this, it was common for people to avoid irritating him in any way. On
one occasion, when they tried to play Kessel Sabacc at Jabba's Palace, the game
was canceled when Jabba appeared, as they preferred not to risk winning against
him by betting on the game. Jabba was an animal collector, interested in
acquiring specimens of rare species. The Hutt's sadistic side also extended to
droids, with torture being employed. The Hutt was also known to collect various
trophies that signified his power. One of the most prominent examples was when
he hung Han Solo's carbonite-frozen body on the wall of his throne room as a
decoration. Unlike his uncle Ebor, Jabba had remarkably poor table manners.
Jabba had a tattoo of the Desilijic kajidic symbol on his right arm.

Jabba had an affinity for young female humanoids, often enslaving them as
dancers or companions. He would chain his favorite slave girls to his throne and
force them to sit with him when they weren't dancing, as was the case with Oola
and Leia Organa. According to Jess, Jabba's favorite slave was better protected
from harassment from the palace guards and guests, though that protection came
at the cost of dealing with Jabba's advances. Jabba's penchant for female
humanoids would eventually become his downfall when Organa used her proximity to
the Hutt to kill him.

Jabba didn't tolerate liars. When Lando Calrissian was brought before him by the
Harlok Gang by saying that he had arranged a deal with Jabba for tibanna gas,
Jabba made him know that he perfectly knew that no such deal had ever taken
place, leading the Hutt to threaten Calrissian to feed him to his rancor for
daring to obtain an audience with him under false pretenses. Nor did he tolerate
those who rebelled against him, placing severe punishments against them, like
when he threw Oola into the rancor pit for disobeying him during a dance.

Boba Fett worked for Jabba as a bounty hunter and pondered if the Hutt saw him
as a friend of sorts.

Despite his ruthless reputation and cruel personality, Jabba nevertheless had a
caring side: he loved his son Rotta very much and became furious when he was
kidnapped by the Separatists, willing to punish those responsible with death.
His tender love for his son is specifically shown when he was willing to work
with the Jedi despite their mutual resentment and as such endanger himself to
see to it they successfully rescued him. Jabba had a friend, his only friend in
fact, in Ephant Mon. However, Boba Fett pondered if he was the closest person
Jabba saw as a friend. Some nights in the Palace, Jabba told Fett incredibly
personal things that Fett believed ate at the crime lord's soul, although Fett
was unsure if Jabba had a soul. Fett also did not understand what Jabba said to
him. However, he enjoyed the drink offered during such moments and, taking into
account how much Jabba paid him, respected the company as tolerable.

Behind the scenes.

- I remember, prior to filming, visiting the Jabba's Throne Room set and
  crawling up inside Jabba. (Guess where you crawled in. It wasn't through the
  mouth.) I took a turn operating the jaws. [...] Inside Jabba was a smelly,
  dank place, reeking of glue, latex, and sweat. It actually took, I think, six
  operators to control his oeverall movements during a performance.
- Star Wars
- Return of the Jedi
 ― Ben Burtt , describing Jabba's puppet for the filming of Star Wars : Episode
 VI Return of the Jedi.

An early concept sketch of Jabba was later used for Azmorigan

Jabba the Hutt was first mentioned in the 1977 film, Star Wars : Episode IV A
New Hope and was mentioned again in the 1980 sequel, Star Wars : Episode V The
Empire Strikes Back. He first appeared in 1983 in the final film of the original
trilogy, Star Wars : Episode VI Return of the Jedi.

Declan Mulholland was cast as Jabba in the unfinished scene from the original
Star Wars, in which he was a rotund human dressed in a shaggy fur coat, but the
scene was cut as George Lucas wanted to depict Jabba as an alien creature, but
the special-effects technology of the time was not up to the task of replacing
Mulholland. The scene, with a CGI Jabba, was eventually added to the Special
Edition of Episode IV when a previously unfinished scene was restored to the
film.

For Return of the Jedi, Jabba was portrayed by puppeteers Toby Philpott, David
Barclay, and Mike Edmonds, and voiced by Larry Ward. Ward had previously
provided Greedo 's Huttese lines in Star Wars : Episode IV A New Hope. Jabba's
lines in Huttese were scripted by sound engineer Ben Burtt before filming, so
that the puppeteers moved Jabba's mouth accordingly.

A later production sketch closer to Jabba's final look.

During postproduction Burtt edited Ward's already deep voice to make it as deep
as possible, and mixed the words with rumble-like tones using a subharmonic
generator, plus the slurpy sound of fondled pasta in a bowl. Jabba's burps were
provided by sound engineer Howie Hammerman, notorious for his loud belches when
drinking soda. Jabba's slimy sound was primarily made using a bowl of melted
cheese.

In 1999, he appeared in the first chapter of the prequel trilogy, Star Wars :
Episode I The Phantom Menace, and made several appearances in the animated
television series Star Wars: The Clone Wars and the film, where he was voiced by
Kevin Michael Richardson. George Lucas originally placed off-limits the
possibility of using Jabba in the series when writer Henry Gilroy was writing
the show bible, but by the time of the next meeting, Lucas changed his mind, and
Jabba was allowed to be used in both The Clone Wars film and the subsequent TV
show. Guillermo del Toro was set to direct a Star Wars film on Jabba's rise to
power and eventual fall.

In 2024, he appeared in Star Wars Outlaws, where he was voiced by Dee Bradley
Baker.

Crime lord Azmorigan was modeled after early concept art of Jabba the Hutt
originally for Return of the Jedi.

Between May, 2016 and mid- 2023, the Databank entry for Jabba on StarWars. com
listed "Hutt, B'omarr Monk " as his species.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Star Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book

Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " Tatooine Rhapsody "

LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+ on the official Star
Wars YouTube channel ( backup link ) ( Posted on StarWars. com )

5 Things We Love About the LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation Trailer on StarWars.
com ( backup link )

20 Easter Eggs from LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation on StarWars. com ( backup
link )

The Art of Star Wars: Visions

A Giant Chewbacca Joins the Fight in New LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy -
Pieces of the Past Trailer on StarWars. com ( backup link )

The Cast and Creators of LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy Reunite for Pieces
of the Past on StarWars. com ( backup link ) (Picture only)

Our Favorite Deep Cuts and Fun Facts from LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy -
Pieces of the Past - Updated on StarWars. com ( backup link ) (Picture only)

VISIONS FILMMAKER FOCUS: THE LOST ONES on the official Star Wars YouTube channel
( backup link )

Notes and references.

External links.

Jabba the Hutt on Wikipedia

Quiz: How Well Do You Know Star Wars: Return of the Jedi? on StarWars. com (
backup link )

Quiz: Which Star Wars Outlaws World Should You Hide Out On? on StarWars. com (
backup link ) (Indirect mention only)
