Shmi Skywalker Lars.

- I don't want things to change.
- But you can't stop the change, any more than you can stop the suns from
  setting.
 ―Anakin Skywalker and Shmi Skywalker.

Shmi Skywalker Lars was a human female who lived in slavery on the planet
Tatooine during the last years of the Galactic Republic. She gave birth to a son
whom she named Anakin Skywalker. In 32 BBY, her son was discovered by Jedi
Master Qui-Gon Jinn, who found the boy to be unusually strong with the Force. He
learned through Shmi that there was no father involved in Anakin's conception,
leading Jinn to believe that Anakin was conceived by the midi-chlorians. With
Shmi's support, Anakin was taken by Jinn to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant and
presented to the leaders of the Jedi Order as the Chosen One —the one who was
destined to restore balance to the Force, according to Jedi prophecy.

After Anakin left Tatooine to begin his Jedi training, Watto sold Shmi to Cliegg
Lars, a moisture farmer, who later freed and married her. Her chance to see
Anakin one last time came when, in the waning days of the Separatist Crisis,
Shmi was abducted and subjected to torture by a legion of Tusken Raiders in 22
BBY. By then, her son had returned to Tatooine as a Jedi Padawan after
experiencing nightmares of her pain. Having seen her son again, Shmi told him
she was complete but died in his arms. Unable to prevent his mother's demise,
Anakin gave into the dark side of the Force and massacred the Tusken Raiders,
including their women and children, and buried his mother at the Lars moisture
farm. Shortly after Shmi's death, her son went on to become a Jedi Knight, and a
general in the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars. The loss of his
mother created in Anakin a strong desire to save his loved ones from death,
which ultimately pushed him to become Darth Sidious ' Sith apprentice, Darth
Vader.

Biography.

Early life.

Shmi Skywalker gave birth to Anakin Skywalker, the Chosen One destined to bring
balance to the Force.

Born on an unknown world, Shmi Skywalker and her parents were captured by
pirates and forced into slavery when she was just a young girl in 66 BBY. She
lived a difficult life and was taken from star system to star system in the
servitude of several masters, as the pirates were uninterested in having an
extra mouth to feed unless she could provide an essential service to them.
Skywalker never spoke about the fates of her parents, if she knew what became of
them. Before she was bought by the Hutts, Skywalker was once sold in a market
similar to the Zygerrian slave market her son Anakin Skywalker would visit
during the Clone Wars.

Skywalker observed that although slavery was outlawed by the Galactic Republic,
the Republic's laws were unenforceable in the Outer Rim Territories where people
had to survive on their own. Eventually, Skywalker was enslaved to and grew up
on the Outer Rim world of Tatooine during the last decades of the Republic Era.
She gained an affinity for working on machinery.

Mother of the Chosen One.

- The Force is unusually strong with him. That much is clear. Who was his
  father?
- There was no father. I carried him, I gave birth, I raised him. I can't
  explain what happened.
 ―Qui-Gon Jinn and Shmi Skywalker, on Anakin Skywalker.

Shmi holding her baby son Anakin.

At some point, perhaps by the will of the Force, the very energy created by all
living things that bound the universe together, Skywalker mysteriously became
pregnant. Without a man having fathering her child, it was believed to have been
conceived within her by the midi-chlorians. In 41 BBY, she gave birth to a son,
Anakin Skywalker. His blood contained over twenty-thousand midi-chlorians,
surpassing the Jedi Grand Master Yoda and all other Jedi in the galaxy, an utter
vergence in the Force. The boy was the Chosen One, whose destiny was prophesied
to bring ultimate balance to the Force itself by destroying the Sith, the
ancient enemies of the Jedi Order. Indeed, an ancient Jedi mystic foresaw that
the Sith would be destroyed by a child who was born of no father. Though unable
to explain or understand how the pregnancy occurred, Skywalker ultimately chose
not to question it and loved her son regardless. Upon giving birth however,
Skywalker was initially afraid, but was relieved to find that her son was a
normal and typical infant. She also kept the true circumstances of his birth a
secret from others, knowing no one would believe her or would be afraid of such
unnatural circumstances.

Working for Watto.

- I can't believe there's still slavery in the galaxy. The Republic's
  antislavery laws—""The Republic doesn't exist out here. We must survive on our
  own.
 ― Padmé Amidala and Shmi Skywalker.

Shmi and Anakin lived with other families in communal quarters during their time
enslaved by the female crime lord Gardulla the Hutt. Gardulla lost them in a bet
with the Toydarian junk dealer Watto, who employed Anakin's skills in mechanics
at his shop. While Watto could be a harsh and demanding master, he still
furnished them with a home in Mos Espa 's slave quarters. Despite their poverty,
she made Anakin and herself a good home through her tireless effort. When Watto
did not need Shmi, he allowed her to gain a modest living cleaning computer
memory devices. She made a small part of their house into a workstation, which
possessed just enough of the tools and equipment to properly work. In addition,
Shmi and her son also owned a few personal possessions including an antiquated
protocol droid named C-3PO and a podracer, both of which Anakin built himself.
In a rare showing of kindness, Watto also gave her an aeromagnifier. Kept in her
work station, the gift was for the hard work she did.

Often, however, Watto was unkind, understanding that nothing could stop him from
doing what he wanted because Shmi had nothing valuable to trade, besides her son
whom she would never trade. Thus, Watto took advantage of this frequently,
requiring the boy to podrace, much to Shmi's dismay. During one race, she
watched in horror as Anakin crashed once again, but was surprised when he had
not been thrown from his podracer for once. Watto approached her, yet again
dismissing her concerns that Anakin could be seriously injured before flying
off. She made her way down to the racing pit where she reunited with Anakin and
saw that his legs had become twisted from the crash. While she knew that Watto
would pay to ensure that Skywalker's legs recovered, Shmi held onto her son's
hand to comfort herself. Before the rustic, yet effective, medical droids made
Anakin unconscious to work on his legs, Anakin promised he would always be with
her, yet Shmi privately wish he would one day leave her for a better life.

Despite the horrors in which Anakin grew up, Shmi still tried to give him a
normal and stable childhood. She taught him how to fix things and fend for
himself, since the Republic was never there for her. She taught him that he
deserved more than slavery. Most of all, she taught him compassion. On hard
nights, Shmi would tell Anakin the Tatooine myth of the sun-dragon. The sun-
dragon was a beast who lived inside the core of a star, guarding everything it
treasured. It could survive through the hardest circumstances because it had the
biggest heart in the galaxy, able to protect anything and everything it loved.
Shmi told this story to her son to remind him that he was the sun-dragon. She
never wanted Anakin to doubt in himself and the power of his love for others.
Anakin recalled this story many times as an adult when he needed to remember
what should guide him. It was something he kept close and told very few other
people.

Shmi also tried to treat Anakin whenever she could. Most of the food they were
able to acquire resulted in very bland dishes, but on the rare occasions when
Shmi had extra things to barter with, she took Anakin out to the food markets in
Mos Espa. In particular, she would take Anakin to a food vendor that sold
franikhad, a meat dish common on desert planets.

One day, she had woken Anakin from a dream where he was a Jedi and freed her.
She appreciated his good natured ambition, but warned him against attracting the
wrong kind of attention by being doing altruistic deeds. Then an Otoga-222
maintenance droid came in and warned them both of the work Watto wanted them to
do while he was gone. The Toydarian needed Anakin to go to the Mos Eisley
spaceport to pick up a shipment. By night, Anakin had come home and was going to
bed. Shmi asked him if he stayed out of trouble, to which he lied and said he
had.

Parting ways with her son.

- I will come back and free you, Mom. I promise.
- Now, be brave, and don't look back. Don't look back.
 ―Anakin Skywalker and Shmi Skywalker.

The Skywalkers befriended Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his companions when they
were stranded on Tatooine.

One day, Anakin returned home with a legion of castaways, including the Jedi
Master Qui-Gon Jinn, the Queen of Naboo Padmé Amidala, disguised as a
handmaiden, the Gungan Jar Jar Binks, and the astromech droid R2-D2, who were
seeking shelter from a sandstorm. While Shmi and her son had initially believed
that these off-worlders had come to free the enslaved people, they quickly
learned that the castaways had become stranded on Tatooine after their Naboo
Royal Starship 's hyperdrive was damaged during a diplomatic mission to the
galactic capital, Coruscant. Unable to secure a replacement with only Republic
dataries on hand, they were grounded. When Anakin offered to help Qui-Gon and
the other castaways obtain money for the hyperdrive by winning the upcoming
Boonta Eve Classic podrace, Shmi initially disagreed with the idea. However, she
relented when Anakin recalled her words on helping others.

Skywalker revealed the truth about her son's parentage to Jinn—there had been no
father.

While Anakin repaired his podracer, Qui-Gon inquired about the boy's father.
Shmi explained that while she carried and raised him, he didn't really have a
father. Later, Qui-Gon tested Anakin's blood and discovered that he was
particularly strong with the Force. Due to his high concentration of midi-
chlorians and the peculiarity around his birth, Qui-Gon believed that Anakin was
the prophesied Chosen One.

The following day, Qui-Gon challenged Watto to a wager, knowing that Watto never
turned down the chance to gamble. He put Anakin's podracer against Shmi and
Anakin's freedom, but Watto did not see the worth in surrendering two enslaved
beings for just one podracer. Qui-Gon and Watto eventually settled on just
Anakin's freedom should he win the race. Shmi along with the off-world visitors
then attended the Boonta Eve Classic. Despite the extremely high risks, Anakin
won the race, and Watto had no choice but to honor his promise to emancipate
Anakin.

Following the race, Shmi and her son embraced each other with Shmi, expressing
pride in her son's achievements. After securing Anakin's earnings from Watto,
Qui-Gon informed Shmi that he had freed Anakin and offered to train him as a
Jedi. Anakin asked if Shmi would be going with them, and was heartbroken when
Qui-Gon broke the news. Putting her own feelings aside and knowing that this was
the path Anakin needed to take, Shmi was able to convince Anakin to leave
without her by explaining that her place and future were on Tatooine. Anakin was
moments away from leaving with Qui-Gon when he ran back to his mother. Terrified
that he would never see her again, Shmi reminded him that as long as he believed
in his heart that they would reunite one day, then they would see each other
again. Anakin made a solemn vow that he would return and free her someday.
Adjusting his pack on Anakin's back, she told her son to be brave and to not
look back, before he left with Qui-Gon to prepare his new life.

Her sons' good deeds would not take long to present themselves.

Later, Shmi was walking through the spaceport where Jira told her to keep her
head up. She told her that Anakin was in a better place, but Shmi already knew
that. In her house, C-3PO held onto the idea that Anakin would one day return.
Suddenly, there was a knock at the door. She opened the door to see a Tusken
Raider, she immediately closed the door to prevent it from getting in. The
Tusken kept the door open using a gaderffii stick and held a black melon through
the door. She backed up as the Tusken entered her home, with C-3PO informing her
of what a black melon offering represented. She knew what it was, and asked why
the Tusken had come. C-3PO translated a story the Tusken Raider told of Anakin
freeing him from slavery. As the Tusken left, she held the melon in her hands.
Her son had returned like C-3PO said he would, in a way. C-3PO stated that he
would come back in more than just stories, but that didn't matter to her, she
had dreamed that he would become a Jedi and he was already on his way doing so.

Emancipation, captivity, and death.

- I'm so proud of you, Ani… so proud… I missed you so much… now I am complete…
 ―Shmi Skywalker Lars.

After bidding farewell to her emancipated son, Skywalker gained her own freedom
and started a new family.

A decade before the outbreak of the Clone Wars, Watto's gambling habit left him
to be essentially broke and destitute, leaving him no choice but to sell Shmi.
The path to her freedom started when a moisture farmer named Cliegg Lars met
Shmi and fell in love with her. Manipulating Watto into a gambling game that the
Toydarian lost, Lars purchased and freed her, in approximately 27 BBY, and the
two eventually married. Shmi became a loving step-mother to his son, Owen Lars.
C-3PO also lived with them. Upon her release, Shmi also helped the White Suns
liberation movement that focused on freeing Tatooine's enslaved people, using
her mechanical and technical talents to build a device that could locate and
remove the tracking chip forced into all enslaved beings. The device was made
out of kitchen equipment and saw its first use on Shmi herself and succeeded,
but subsequent uses on others showed it needed to be perfected.

Approximately four years after the Invasion of Naboo, Padmé sent her handmaiden
Sabé to rescue as many people from slavery as she could, including Shmi.
Unfortunately, Sabé's efforts went in so many wrong directions, because it
enlisted help from so many untrustworthy sources. Watto had seemingly
disappeared along with Shmi, and when Sabé asked of her whereabouts, they could
only tell her that she had been sold. When passing through Shmi's former
residence, she noted a sign on the door that was likely a mark of the local
liberation movement; in truth, it was indeed the mark of the White Suns.

By the end, Sabé's efforts led her to buy the freedom of over twenty-five
individuals, reporting back to Amidala that among the freed beings were Anakin's
old friends, Kitster Banai and Wald. Undeterred, Amidala asked Sabé to continue
her efforts to free more people on Tatooine, although she soon needed to leave
to help Amidala in the Galactic Senate. Although Amidala and Sabé remained
unaware of her fate, Shmi had a quiet yet happy life at the Lars moisture farm
in Tatooine's Jundland Wastes, spending many happy years together with her
husband as farmers. However, she spent many nights with an ache in her heart,
looking at the stars, as she was worried about where Anakin was and his well-
being. One month before the Battle of Geonosis, Shmi was out gathering mushrooms
that grew on the moisture vaporators, when a group of Tusken Raiders kidnapped
her and took her to their camp. Cliegg assembled a rescue party, involving about
30 participants, and Cliegg himself, but the Tusken Raiders gained the upper
hand and slaughtered most of Cliegg's party, with Cliegg's leg being severed in
the process. Believing Shmi to be dead and unwilling to risk any more lives,
Cliegg aborted the mission.

However, Shmi was still alive but had been severely tortured and brutalized.
Meanwhile, her son Anakin, now 19 years of age and a Padawan under Jedi Knight
Obi-Wan Kenobi, sensed her distress through Force-induced nightmares. Anakin
immediately set off to Tatooine to find and save her with Senator Amidala
accompanying him. After meeting with Watto, Anakin and Amidala arrived at the
Lars family farm and learned about his mother's fate after Anakin left for
Coruscant: freedom, marrying Cliegg and becoming stepmother to Owen Lars, and
her kidnapping. Despite Cliegg' advice, Anakin traveled into the wilderness to
find her. He eventually found the Tusken Raider camp.

Captured and tortured by Tusken Raiders, Shmi Skywalker Lars died in the arms of
her son, who returned to her as a Jedi apprentice.

After infiltrating the camp, he found the tent where Shmi was being held. There,
Anakin encountered a bound and emaciated Shmi, who was near death. Right before
her death, she managed to tell her son that she was proud of him and that she
loved him. She was complete after seeing her son and died in his arms. Shmi's
death threw Anakin into a fit of rage, and he took his first step into the dark
side of the Force when he avenged his mother by killing every Tusken Raider at
the encampment, including the women and children. The following morning, Anakin
returned to the Lars moisture farm with his mother's body. Shmi was mourned by
both her son Anakin and husband Cliegg, as well as Amidala, Owen, and his
girlfriend, Beru. They all attended her funeral, where Beru served blue milk and
cheese to everyone after.

Legacy.

- I know wherever you are, it's become a better place. You were the most loving
  partner a man could ever have. Good-bye, my darling wife. And thank you.
- I wasn't strong enough to save you, Mom. I wasn't strong enough. But I promise
  I won't fail again. I miss you…so much.
 ―Cliegg Lars and Anakin Skywalker, bidding farewell to Shmi Skywalker Lars.

Anakin was burdened by guilt, believing that he had failed his mother and
himself as a Jedi.

Shmi's death had a profound effect on influencing Anakin's journey to the dark
side. Prior to his mother's burial, Anakin told Amidala that he regretted not
being strong enough to save his mother. He also vowed that he would one day
become so powerful that he could learn to stop people from dying. Then Skywalker
confessed to his role in killing the Tusken Raiders to avenge his mother's
death. Skywalker's guilt about not being able to prevent Shmi's death made him
susceptible to the Sith Lord Darth Sidious ' efforts to win him over to the dark
side.

During the Clone Wars, Anakin experienced a Force vision of Shmi on the planet
Mortis, where he had been put through a series of tests by three powerful beings
known as the Force wielders who wanted to determine whether he truly was the
Chosen One. In reality, the Son, one of the Force wielders who embodied the dark
side of the Force, had assumed the form of his late mother. The false Shmi told
Anakin to give up his love for Amidala, whom he had secretly married shortly
after the Battle of Geonosis, saying that he did not truly love her and that she
was poison to him before transforming into the Son.

By 18 BBY, Obi-Wan, who lived in exile on Tatooine after Order 66, had gone to
Shmi's grave to apologize for losing her son. Some time after this, it was
presumed that Owen and Beru buried Shmi and Cliegg's tombstones in order to
safeguard Shmi's grandson Luke Skywalker, who was placed in their care. Years
later, Obi-Wan left toys for Luke, next to her sandblasted tombstone for Beru to
find.

When Anakin, now the Sith Lord Darth Vader, attempted to bleed a kyber crystal
to create his own red-bladed Sith lightsaber, the crystal fought back by showing
him a series of visions. One of these involved Anakin returning to the Lars
homestead with Shmi's body in his arms.

After becoming Darth Vader, the former Anakin Skywalker beheld a vision of his
dead mother and his Sith Master, Darth Sidious.

Shortly after the Battle of Fortress Vader, Vader entered a portal created by
Darth Momin and saw visions from his past, which manifested his fears and dark
thoughts. Upon entering the portal, Vader was able to see his pregnant mother
and a spectral appearance of Sidious behind her, resounding words that Shmi said
to Qui-Gon about Anakin having no father before passing to the next part of his
visions.

In 3 ABY, shortly after informing Shmi's grandson Luke Skywalker about his
parentage, Darth Vader returned to the Lars moisture farm. While exploring the
farm's remains, the forensics droid ZED-6-7 remarked that Shmi's death at the
Tusken Raiders hands was among the records that indicated the generations of
animosity between the Tuskens and moisture farmers.

Rey buries the lightsabers of Shmi's grandchildren where Shmi was buried.

In 35 ABY, following the ultimate destruction of Darth Sidious and the Final
Order, the Jedi Rey journeyed to the Lars homestead on Tatooine, burial site of
Shmi Skywalker. Once there, the former scavenger laid to rest the lightsabers of
Luke Skywalker and his twin sister, Leia Skywalker Organa Solo, the
grandchildren of Shmi who were birthed by Padmé Amidala. The Skywalker bloodline
ended with the deaths of Leia and her son, Ben Solo, however Rey—the
granddaughter of Darth Sidious—chose to adopt their surname to honor the
Skywalker family.

Personality and traits.

- Mom, you said the biggest problem in this universe is that no one helps each
  other.
 ―Anakin Skywalker, to Shmi Skywalker.

Shmi Skywalker Lars was a peaceful, selfless, compassionate, and kind person.
She loved her son Anakin immensely and was willing to sacrifice herself in order
to let Anakin have the possibility of a better life. During her time under
Watto, Shmi still had hope that she would eventually be free, but she accepted
her lot in life and had joy in her relationship with Anakin, cherishing their
modest life in the Slave Quarters Row.

Cliegg claimed that Shmi was the best partner a man could ask for, as he was
deeply affected by Shmi's death at the hands of the Tusken Raiders.

Skills and abilities.

Shmi was skilled at mechanical repairs, much like her son Anakin. She was also
known for her maintenance and survival skills. After marrying Cliegg Lars, she
learned how to work the Lars family's moisture farm.

Behind the scenes.

Shmi Skywalker was portrayed by Swedish actress Pernilla August in Star Wars :
Episode I The Phantom Menace and Star Wars : Episode II Attack of the Clones.
She reprised her role as Shmi in the The Clone Wars season 3 episode "
Overlords. "

In 1998, it was announced that Anakin Skywalker's mother would be named Shmi and
that August would portray her. When the original trilogy was rereleased in
theaters and VHS to commemorate the twentieth anniversary of Star Wars : Episode
IV A New Hope the year before, Star Wars Trivial Pursuit was released to
coincide with this. The limited-edition game contained a sequestered pack of
questions that served as a preview of the first new trilogy instalment, two of
which divulged those bits of information.

In one of the first drafts of The Phantom Menace, her name was Shmi Warka.
Shmi's death in Skywalker's arms was theorized by Vanity Fair to be based on
Director George Lucas 's own experiences with his mother Dorothy Lucas, who,
throughout his childhood, was often bedridden with a sickness that may have been
pancreatitis. For the 2011 re-release of Attack of the Clones on the Star Wars:
The Complete Saga Blu-ray, new dialogue from Shmi was added to Anakin
Skwyalker's nightmare that leads him to Tatooine. Pablo Hidalgo of the Lucasfilm
Story Group believed this dialogue had been recorded years prior, with the 2011
release therefore simply being the first time it was publicly available, but
could not recall the specifics of its recording as of 2022 other than commenting
it "was added well after the DVD release" of November 2002.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

William Shakespeare's The Phantom of Menace: Star Wars Part the First

LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales — " Exit from Endor " (In flashback(s))

William Shakespeare's The Clone Army Attacketh: Star Wars Part the Second

William Shakespeare's Tragedy of the Sith's Revenge: Star Wars Part the Third
(Mentioned only)

LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III (In flashback(s))

LEGO Star Wars Battle Story : Father Son Time on the official LEGO YouTube
channel ( backup link ) (Vision)

LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga

Sources.

Notes and references.
