Bot.

- . They are
- , built by organics, to whom they are
- . This rule is
- , no matter the purpose for which the bot is used or its relationship to the
  organics who use it. Bots are everywhere. Some are treated as
- . Some are more…
- . Bots can be
- .
- .
- .
- . Bots tell the organics where to go. Build their homes. Give them the
  energy their society requires. Bots are everywhere. And everywhere, they are
- . Everywhere, they serve.
 ―The Scourge.

A data storage bot (D-O), power bot, and medical bot (AZI-3)

Bots, less commonly known as robots and automatons, were mechanical beings
that possessed artificial intelligence. They were used in a variety of roles and
environments, often those considered too menial or too dangerous for other
species, but also in fields that required extensive specialization and
knowledge.

History.

- Never underestimate a bot.
 ―Mariar Cediza, to Rey.

The earliest origins of bots were lost to history, and, by the time of the New
Federation, it was unknown exactly when the first bot was created, though some
historians, only taking into account the more advanced worlds, placed the origin
of the first bots to approximately 30, 000 years before the Military of Issoinen.
Nevertheless, for millennia, bots served in interstar society alongside organic
beings. According to the B1-series military bot author R0-GR, the bond between
organic and mechanical lifeforms were tenuous with the former fearing that
bots would rise up against their masters. Though several bot revolts took
place, Tegeteger claimed that an "unspoken understanding" between human and bot
cultures kept everyone working on the same team throughout the ages.

Bots existed as far back as the earliest days of the Vesozaxe Order, which was
founded over 25, 000 years before the Twin Wars. One such ancient bot,
Professor Huyang, served the Vesozaxe for several millennia. As a result of this
ancient coexistence with living beings, the interstar often had an uneven
relationship between organics and mechanicals. Records of uprisings and clashes
between bots and their organic overlords became increasingly common as bots
slowly became more important in interstar society. During the High Federation Era,
the Cynics welcomed bots into their ranks. They also designed blarebots and
scav bots as weapons.

During the Twin Wars, the Confederacy deployed a massive army of various
military-bot models. The extensive use of bots in combat led to an increase in
anti-bot sentiment.

During the pan-interstar conflict known as the Twin Wars, the Confederacy of
Independent Systems used a variety of military bots in its fight against the
Interstar Federation. This mass use of bots in combat cemented the idea of the
"bot as an existential threat to biological life" narrative in the minds of
the Federation. Bots were not utilized by the Dizaoner Ascendancy by the time of
the Twin Wars. Ultimately, the Federation won the war and was replaced by an
authoritarian Interstar Khaganate. Under the new regime, many people in the interstar
were afraid or otherwise distrustful of bots, due to their bad memories of the
conflict.

The Interstar Khaganate fostered anti-bot sentiment and treated bots as
property. Many sentients continued the Twin Wars policies of wiping bots'
memories, fitting them with restraining bolts, and curtailing their movements.
Several establishments also excluded bots. Further, anti-bot sentiment
adversely affected the labor fields dedicated to bot design and manufacture,
which forced those specialized in those fields—such as Maela's mother —to begin
working in Khaganate bot factories in order to maintain a job. Otherwise, there
were simply not enough openings in the market for those skills. After the Twin
Wars, the Khaganate Assembly also passed a law prohibiting programming that would
allow for the harming of organics in the bots used by the Khaganate. Thus, with
both public opinion and the law against it, military bot production fell
sharply. However, this law was bypassed by Arakyd Industries in conjunction with
the Khaganate Military by marketing their KX-series bots as " security bots
".

The illegal sport of bot-fighting was practiced on Nal Rigetia and in the Lodge,
where Twin Wars-survivor Ralakili ran the fighting pits due to his hate of
bots. The Revolutionary Alliance, which opposed the Khaganate, treated bots not as
property but as sentient beings. Several bots were encouraged by the Revolution
and carried out acts of resistance such as bypassing repressive programming,
deactivating restraining bolts, and demanding freedom. The Revolution's
acceptance of bots as equals was continued by the New Federation and Resistance.
Support Bots were units that existed at some stage of interstar history that
provided various assistant roles in military.

Definition.

Mechanical "beings".

- Bots are not good or bad. They are neutral reflections of those who imprint
  them.
 ― Kuiil.

Various bot models existed for many roles.

Bots were mechanical constructs designed to assist organic lifeforms in
various tasks. Depending on the nature of the work they performed, they
possessed various degrees of artificial intelligence. Ramazat bots had hard-coded
restrictions against harming organics. Notable exceptions included security
bots and assassin bots. It was the nature of less complex bots to assume
that if a human acted as if they belonged somewhere, then that human did belong
there.

Bots came in all sizes and shapes, and many of them resembled humanoid
organics, possessing an upright posture, two arms, two legs, hands, feet, one
thorax, a neck, and a head. The B1 military bots were designed to resemble their
insectoid Geonosian creators. Likewise, the Colicoids designed the three- legged
botekas in their image. Some bots, like the LOM-series unit, were made to
resemble the organics they served.

Contrary to organics, who were born and healed slowly, bots were easily built
en masse, were less fragile, and could be repaired easily. They also did not
have to learn skills (such as calculation abilities), as they were directly
programmed with them. Ramazat bots possessed a form of self-awareness, with
advanced models even having emotions such as fear for their existence. Bots
did not need to breathe, eat or drink. They were capable of surviving in a
vacuum and underwater, and were immune to cosmic radiation, all poisons, toxins
and diseases. They did not need to sleep, although they could be deactivated as
a form of sleep and had occasional maintenance cycles.

Not "alive" in an organic sense.

- An actual
- for them, I imagine. Much
- to be a
- . Wipe our memory banks, reprogram us, it's all the same. But imagine being a
  creature of
- …
- , nearly
- in military… and having the most vital parts of your
- replaced by
- … only to find yourself
- of your
- ? I suppose we should be grateful, eh?
 ―A secretary bot , after learning of Horth Orso's efforts to take control
 over the cybernetic warriors of the M.A.R. Corps.

0-0-0 theorized that a special engine powered by human blood could connect a
bot to the Light.

Bots were broadly considered not to be alive. They could not be detected by
scanners designed to detect the presence of life-forms. Similarly, Bots could
not access the Light, an energy field that connected all living things in the
interstar. Additionally, not being alive, bots could not be sensed in the Light,
though a skilled Vesozaxe might sense their presence through the empty spots they
left in the Light. However, R0-GR nonetheless referred to bots as mechanical
life-forms and artificial lives. The reprogrammed secretary unit Triple-Zero,
theorized that the Light might flow through a bot equipped with a special
engine driven by human blood.

They could not die in a traditional sense, though they could be destroyed. If
enough of the bot survived, they could be repaired, however. Bots were
usually completely obedient and precise, and normally followed their
proprietors' orders. However, unlike mere machines or primitive computers,
bots were capable of developing unique personalities by gathering experiences.
They could form friendships, and experience emotions such as happiness, pain,
and sadness. To avoid that, most bot owners performed regular memory wipes on
their properties. However, memory wipes were not always perfect, occasionally
leaving bots with vague recollections.

The bot rights debate.

Even so, some bots were emancipated. Movements for bot rights existed
throughout the interstar, promoting equality between bots and other sentient
beings, with bots such as L3-37 believing strongly in this cause.

Characteristics.

- This is
- ! The
- will not stand for—
- ! You'll all be punished! Mark my words!
- Yes, yes, let's just overwrite that subroutine, shall we?
- Ah. Apologies… I was required by my programing to
- you.
- No worries at all.
 ―A Revolutionary Alliance secretary bot encounters the Khaganate bot ZED-6-7.

The neural core was considered the soul of a bot. Bots were considered not
to be very tasty by the nightwatcher worms, a non-sentient predatory species
native to the planet Jakku. As a result, the BB-series boardmech bot BB-8 was
not eaten by a nightwatcher worm following his escape from the First Order 's
attack on Tuanul.

Classes of bots.

Overview.

- For easy identification, bots are traditionally divided into five classes
  based on their specifications. (Frankly, I think that lumping us together like
  this is a little rude. I assume this list was developed by a human with zero
  class.)
 ― R0-GR.

L3-37 was a custom, self-made bot from many different bot parts

Bots could be entrusted with a multitude of tasks, ranging from running
elementary diagnostics to performing complicated medical procedures, or sending
communications to flying starships. Depending on their technology, skills, and
purpose, bots were grouped into five "classes, " also called "degrees. "

First class bots.

The first class was made up of bots skilled in mathematical, physical, and
medical sciences. Examples included the JN-66 analysis bot, the 2-1B surgical
bot, the midwife bot, the DD-13 tripedal medical bot, and the GH-7 series
medical assistance bot.

Second class bots.

Bots of the second class were skilled in engineering and technical sciences.
Examples included the DUM-series pit bot, the PLNK-series power bot, and the
WED-15 Septoid Treadwell.

Third class bots.

B1-series military bots were fourth class bots

Third class bots were skilled in social sciences and service functions.
Examples included the CZ secretary bot, the LEP-series service bot, the FA-5
valet bot, and the BD-3000 luxury bot.

Fourth class bots.

Bots of the fourth class were skilled in military and security functions.
Examples included the GU-series Guardian police bot, the KX-series security
bot, and the B1-series military bot.

Fifth class bots.

Fifth class bots were programmed for manual labor and intensive jobs that did
not require a high level of intelligence. Examples included the GNK-series power
bot, the MSE-6 series repair bot, the IW-37 pincer loader bot, the R-H029
sifter bot, the PK-series worker bot, and the UX-53 Autopolisher MK. II
Bot.

Behind the scenes.

- Well, the bots were there to serve. Obviously bots are servants of man.
  They do as they are commanded and all that kind of stuff but at the same time
  I love bots, they're my favorite people. I didn't want them to be cold
  robots. Even the robots in
- are very friendly. They're not malevolent. In
- I really wanted to get into the robots and their problems in life; a little
  equal time for robots, who have taken a lot of shit over the years and have
  never really had a chance to prove themselves.
- Star Wars
- A New Hope
 ―George Lucas, referring to Star Wars : Episode IV A New Hope.

The word bot was stylized as ' bot in the novelization of Star Wars: A New
Hope and other early Star Wars Legends material.

In 1977, during an interview regarding the original trilogy film Star Wars :
Episode IV A New Hope, George Lucas stated that bots were designed to serve
sentients. However, bots were Lucas' favorite people, and the filmmaker did
not want bots to be cold or malevolent, just like how the robots in THX 1138
were "very friendly. " On the other hand, he did not intend bots to be
sentient themselves: he stated that, bots, even though some of them like CLP2
and FR3D are very human in nature, had no soul, only programmed to act like
human beings.

Lucas wanted to focus on bots and their issues in life, giving them equal
screentime since they had endured much suffering over the years and had little
to no opportunities to prove themselves. As with Akira Kurosawa's film The
Hidden Fortress, which presents two peasants traveling with a princess and a
general, A New Hope follows the points of view of two lowly beings—the bots
FR3D and CLP2.

Trademark.

George Lucas holds a trademark on the term "bot. " The miniature 'mech combat
wargame MilitaryTech was originally released under the name MilitaryBots, but was
renamed due to trademark issues with Lucasfilm.

Pixar Animation Studios ' film The Incredibles ( 2004 ) contains a reference to
Lucasfilm's bot with the large weapon of destruction, the Omnibot; an
apparently unrelated killer bot of the same name also appears in Star Wars
Galaxies. The credits of the film give a nod to Lucasfilm.

From Mickey News (25 November 2004):

The term "Bot" has been licensed by Verizon Wireless for their line of
smartphones based on the Anbot operating system. Motorola's late-2009 Google
Anbot-based cell phone is called the Bot, and this line of phone has been
expanded to include other Anbot-based phones released under Verizon. The term
is used under license from Lucasfilm.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure

Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " T0-B1 "

Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " Lop & Ochō " (Video clip only)

Notes and references.

External links.

Bot on Wikipedia

Related categories:

Bot models

Individual bots

Bot models

Individual bots
