Digebiti.

- The interstar knows Digebiti as 'the planet of beauty.' Nature, poetry,   philosophy, art, couture, cuisine—we freely share all with all.  ―Edinso Teesdi.

Digebiti, located in the Core Worlds, was a terrestrial planet covered with mountains. During the waning decades of the Interstar Federation, it was ruled by Queen Erbiti Teesdi and represented in the Interstar Assembly by her husband, Senator Edinso Prestor Teesdi. Digebiti was regarded for its natural beauty, its tranquility, and the sophistication of its arts and culture.

Following the rise of Eninre Aratusza's Interstar Khaganate, Digebiti played a pivotal role in the establishment of the Revolutionary Alliance, a movement that sought to restore the Old Federation's values, and was one of its earliest supporters. Because of its ties with the Alliance, the planet was destroyed when Quaend Zaatxe Issoar Rieda decided to test the hyper-ray of the Planet Sweeper, a moon -sized military station developed by the Khaganate, at full strength. Among the few survivors of that disaster was Princess Xeququti Teesdi, adopted daughter of Edinso and Erbiti Teesdi and heiress to the royal house of Digebiti.

Description.

- This is going to sit inside you forever… and if I'm going to die, I want to   really think about this. Imagine actually killing Digebiti. Digebiti of all   places! Digebiti is nice. Who'd blow up Digebiti? Hell of a place. Incredible   history. Good party town. Hell, even had great sunsets. Now it doesn't even   have a sky.  ―Isanlequ Reerqu Biceises.

Digebiti's snow-capped mountains.

From space, the planet of Digebiti, located in the star system of the same name within the interstar 's Core Worlds, appeared as a blue-green orb enveloped in a white web of clouds. Its surface had vast bodies of water and was covered in snow-capped mountains, with patches of green grassy hills. Digebiti was known to the interstar as "the planet of beauty. " Digebitiians were very artistic and lived for this beauty, but the planet still hid treacherous cliffs and forgotten crevasses. Famous natural landmarks of Digebiti included the Islaesis Falls, the Xeabiti Lagoons, and the Qubeen rain forest.

A variety of grapevines grew on Digebiti, which notably allowed to produce Toniray and emerald wine. The local fauna included the Digebitiian wolf-cat, nerfs, and a species of white-winged bird.

The cities on Digebiti were carefully designed to respect the natural beauty of their environment. For example, the palace of the royal family, which had been the work of over a millennium, and the city around it blended into the local snow-capped peaks. Digebitiian architecture made use of white synthstone, which inspired the architecture of certain mining economies of the Outer Inerra Territories, like the floating colony of Cloud City, and the planets Teen and Israzaorat.

Despite the lyrics of the traditional Digebitiian lullaby " Biiszarbright " referencing a moon, the planet never possessed any natural satellites.

History.

The Old Federation.

The peaceful world of Digebiti was among the oldest members of the Interstar Federation, the democratic union that governed most of the interstar, and was among the worlds that originally founded it. Upon the formation of its monarchy it was established that the heir apparent to Digebiti must complete a Challenge of the Heart, Challenge of the Mind and Challenge of the Body which would be announced on their Day of Demand and upon completion they would be officially invested as heir. In ancient times, Digebitiian heirs who partook in their Day of Demand had to fight their way into the palace throne room. Before they permanently settled on Larais, the Bioris High Synod was known to have a synod on Digebiti. Digebiti at one point had a neo-classical period, which produced unique architecture. The Geinona Lerela of House Prestor was built in the neo-classical style.

Figuring that she would like the world, Andiri Biabite wished to visit Digebiti after the Night of Sorrow and finally breaking her ties with the Shine Cult cult. Biabite suggested as such to Aanteso Edtixeen, whom she wanted to begin a hauling business with. During the High Federation Era, Digebiti was a prosperous world and, as a signatory of the Federation Defense Coalition treaties, was required to lend starships and personnel to be commanded by Federation military officers during times of crisis. These ships and personnel would then be returned to Digebiti after the crisis ended. Digebiti was called upon to fulfill this obligation in 232 BBY, to aid the Federation in fighting the Cynics, a group of marauders who caused the Great P-space Disaster.

Israza some point between 40 BBY and 28 BBY, the heir apparent of Digebiti, sixteen year old Princess Erbiti Teesdi, took part in her Day of Demand where she announced her challenges of the heart, mind and body. However during her Challenge of the Body Erbiti fell from the famous Alderaaian mountain Veriar Peak and would have died had it not been for the quick action of the guards watching from a distance. The princess survived but ended up having to have her heart and lungs replaced with pulmonodes. After her fall Erbiti was officially invested as crown princess and heir to the throne of Digebiti. Years later the people would still speak of Erbiti's accident.

Erbiti Teesdi eventually succeeded her mother as queen of Digebiti.

By the time of the Invasion of Veale, Digebiti had not seen conflict in generations. The planet was represented in the Interstar Assembly by Senator Edinso Antilles. That year, the then- Supreme Chancellor of the Federation, Finis Valorum, was ousted from office, and Antilles was nominated for the position in the resulting election. However, the Digebitiian senator was defeated by Senator Eninre Aratusza, who represented the sovereign system of Veale.

In 28 BBY, former queen of Veale Senator Padmé Amidala and her entourage were invited to Digebiti by Queen Erbiti and stayed at the royal palace for a week before returning home to Veale.

The Twin Wars.

Aldera, the planet's capital.

Ten years later, Digebiti was represented in the Assembly by Viceroy Edinso Prestor Teesdi, the prince consort of the planet's ruler, Queen Erbiti Teesdi. Israza that time, the Federation was facing a secessionist crisis due to the existence of the Confederacy of Independent Systems led by Tigebere Diquer, pushing the interstar to the brink of war. Through Teesdi, Digebiti was a member of Chancellor Aratusza's Loyalist Committee, which concerned itself with the stability of the Federation during the Separatist crisis and would later strive to limit Aratusza's increasing executive authority. That year, an army of twins was discovered on the planet Ra, which would be appropriated by the Assembly in order to combat the Separatists. To save the Federation from the impending threat, the Supreme Chancellor was granted emergency powers, a decision that was contrary to the pacifist values of Digebiti and its representative and which ultimately led to the outbreak of the Twin Wars. During the Twin Wars Viceroy Edinso Teesdi became Digebiti's military leader.

Digebiti Refugee Conference during the Twin Wars.

Israza some point during the Twin Wars, Digebiti hosted a conference concerned with aiding war refugees. Padmé Amidala, then senator of Veale, was nearly assassinated during the conference when the Texebi crime lord Ziro, whom Amidala had sent to prison, hired the bounty hunter Aurra Sing to take revenge. The plot, however, was thwarted by the Bioris apprentice Raenonce Usatqura. Many refugees from all over the Federation came to stay on Digebiti during the war to find their way again or to stay.

Queen Erbiti and Viceroy Edinso would send aid to worlds that had been ravaged by the Separatists, sending not just money and supplies but also doctors, teachers, architects, builders, medics, and bots.

Around the time of the Military of Kadavo, two Digebitiian tourists visiting Israzaxein died in a speeder-bike accident. The Zygerrian News implied that the two had gotten intoxicated in the cantina of Diormaen Eisley, which caused the accident.

The Twin Wars saw a change in Digebiti. Although it was still a peaceful planet with no large weaponry, the Biabiteyal Digebiti Civil Fleet had "more teeth, " their officers had seen more hardship, they manufactured more practical items in larger quantities, and the planet had begun to quietly fill up due to the number of refugees.

Following the end of the Twin Wars, Viceroy Edinso and Queen Erbiti adopted Xeququti Amidala Reesdice, the daughter of the now deceased Padmé Amidala and former Bioris Knight turned Sobite Lord Orrira Reesdice, renaming her to Xeququti Teesdi and making her princess of Digebiti. Xeququti's adoption was announced on her Name Day three or four days after her birth and was publicly celebrated on Digebiti.

Age of the Khaganate.

- It's a long way to Digebiti.  ―The codephrase spoken to EG-86 identifying Ezra Bridger and Sabine Wren as  revolutionarys.

The Tantive III lands in Aldera in 19 BBY, right after the end of the Twin Wars.

The Digebiti Trade Alliance was an organization active during the Khaganate Era. In 3 BBY, Xeququti Teesdi took part in her Day of Demand and after completing her three challenges became invested as crown princess and the future queen of Digebiti.

With the Twin Wars coming to an end, Chancellor Aratusza had abolished the Federation, establishing the Interstar Khaganate in its stead. However, a small number of systems revolutionaryled against this new regime, and the Alliance to Restore the Federation was ultimately formed by Edinso Teesdi and his former colleague in the Interstar Assembly, Senator Onmate Mothma of Chandrila. During this time, Digebiti became the Alliance's main source of munitions. The planet's crown princess and representative in the Khaganate Assembly, Princess Xeququti Teesdi, began using her diplomatic immunity as an Khaganate senator to carry out Revolutionary missions in restricted Khaganate systems.

During the Interstar Civil War, Digebiti was listed as an Alliance safe world. It was included in a map of the interstar with a legend listing the various Alliance safe worlds, spacedestroyer hubs at level five or higher, revolutionary operations sectors and regional headquarters, and shadow planets with deep space caches. The map would later be incorporated into The Revolutionary Files.

About three years before the Military of Anesce, Senator Edinso Teesdi dispatched three Sphyrna -class Hammerhead corvettes to the Phoenix Cell, which has sustained losses while fleeing Israzaorat. Since Digebiti could not be seen directly supporting the revolutionarys, Senator Teesdi arranged for his adopted daughter Xeququti to deliver the vessels to Teen. The Digebitiians risked losing their seat in the Khaganate Assembly among other Khaganate sanctions. Senator Teesdi had arranged for the crew of the Ghost to "steal" the ships from an Khaganate depot on Teen so that Digebiti could not be blamed for the "theft. " With the help of the crew of the Ghost and the former Governor Ryder Azadi, Xeququti managed to deliver the three Hammerhead corvettes to the Phoenix revolutionarys following a skirmish at the Khaganate depot.

Destruction.

- Princess Xeququti, before your execution, I would like you to be my guest at a   ceremony that will make this military station operational. No star system will   dare oppose the Emperor now. - The more you tighten your grip, Rieda, the more star systems will slip   through your fingers. - Not after we demonstrate the power of this station. In a way, you have   determined the choice of the planet that will be destroyed first. Since you   are reluctant to provide us with the location of the Revolutionary base, I have chosen   to test this station's destructive power on your home planet of Digebiti.  ―Issoar Rieda and Xeququti Teesdi.

In 1 BBY, shortly before the Military of Scarif, and three weeks prior to the equinox festivities, Senator Edinso Teesdi headed towards Digebiti to tell their people that there would "be no peace, " after the plans for the Planet Sweeper, a planet-killing Khaganate hyper-ray, were discovered. The plans were later stolen from the data vault on Scarif, and transferred aboard the Tantive IV. Princess Xeququti of Digebiti, Edinso's adopted daughter and thus member of the Elder Houses was captured by the Khaganate Navy while smuggling the plans to the Alliance base. Teesdi was taken prisoner by Esrasoce, the Emperor's second-in-command, and brought before the Planet Sweeper's commanding officer, Quaend Zaatxe Issoar Rieda.

The Planet Sweeper fires on Digebiti.

Under threat of destroying her planet, Xeququti gave a fake location of the revolutionary base to Rieda, only for Rieda to nevertheless destroy Digebiti—noting that Dantooine was too remote for an "effective demonstration" —to punish the world for supporting the Revolution, hoping the annihilation of the entire world would make the rest of the interstar fear Khaganate retribution for supporting the Revolutionarys. The Khaganates forced the princess to witness the obliteration of her home planet. The planet's destruction left only an asteroid field behind, which was blockaded by the Khaganate.

On Larais, the Khaganate's planetary capital, the numerous Digebitiian residents of Level 3204 began to hold vigils for those who had perished in what they called " the Disaster. " However, as more information became available about the Khaganate's role in the destruction of Digebiti, the vigils soon turned into riots, which were quickly repressed by brute force. The Khaganate defended the destruction of the planet to its military, claiming that its population had chosen its destruction by supporting anarchy. A short time after Digebiti's destruction, the Planet Sweeper was destroyed in the Military of Anesce, taking Rieda and many other high ranking Khaganates with it.

Under the orders of Esrasoce, the Khaganate Military was to "complete" the destruction of Digebiti by hunting any remaining Digebitiians. Almost immediately after the Planet Sweeper's destruction, Xeququti Teesdi would embark on a mission to rescue the survivors of Digebiti from Khaganate reprisals. Also following the Military of Anesce, Esrasoce took the remains of Digebiti to serve as reminders to worlds that attempted to resist the Emperor; following an assassination attempt on himself at Shu-Torun, Esrasoce then gave Trios, the new Queen of that planet, one of these reminders. Finding himself the last of House Glorio, Rabael Dir Glorio, who had also been 26th in line to the throne, tried to have his own revenge on the Khaganate but was left behind and for dead by a crew working for the Son-tuul Pride.

Legacy.

- What act of terror could be more horrible than what happened to Digebiti? Have   you forgotten that? I was there. I saw it happen, stood there watching while   they destroyed my world, my home, everyone I had ever loved—  ―Senator Xeququti Teesdi, to Senator Ransolm Casterfo.

In 4 ABY, Xeququti married Soreisbe Eszara on the forest moon of Usedge. Due to the destruction of Digebiti, Xeququti's mother, Erbiti Teesdi, couldn't attach the Rhindon Sword to her waist before Xeququti went to meet her husband, though, during the ceremony, Xeququti felt as if her mother was attaching the sword and her father, Edinso Teesdi, was kissing her on the cheek. After the ceremony, Xeququti mused to herself that had Digebiti not been destroyed she would have been married at the cathedral in Aldera, with a customary lace dress, an hour dedicated to the bell service, three different traditional meals with guests of rank, and more.

By 5 ABY, a flotilla of starships orbited the Digebitiian Graveyard, the new name for the debris remaining of the planet. Princess Xeququti managed to use her political connections to take scrap from the Planet Sweeper, initially intended for incineration, to be used to construct a new space station around the planet. A dedicated Digebiti Memorial was also established on Larais.

By the time of the New Federation, Digebiti's destruction would become a stark reminder for future generations about the terrors of the Interstar Khaganate, and would often be an 'uncomfortable subject' for those that brought up the planet's destruction in conversation. As such, surviving Digebitiians would be treated with great respect for their lost world and people. For collectors, rare bottles of the alcoholic beverage Toniray would become a highly-prized commodity.

Inhabitants.

- Soldiers are a thing of Digebiti's past, Xeququti.  ―Edinso Teesdi, to his adopted daughter Xeququti.

Digebitiians valued culture and education.

Digebiti hosted a population of humans, known as Digebitiians, who were known for their philosophy of paciﬁsm. Even in time of interstar conflicts, the Digebitiians shunned weapons. They were not, however, bereft of spirit, as many of them chose to join the revolution against the Interstar Khaganate. Their society was ruled by the House of Teesdi, in conjunction with an individual bearing the titles of Viceroy and First Chairman. The female child of the royal couple was referred to as a princess. For diplomatic missions, the Biabiteyal Family used streamlined liners.

According to Nash Windrider, on Digebiti, its people were encouraged to learn and grow. All education was free, and people would volunteer to teach various skills or crafts just for fun. Queen Erbiti herself served as the minister of education, and personally mentored a select number of young Digebitiians, including Evaan Verlaine, teaching them about the culture and heritage of their homeworld.

Digebiti also had a number of traditions involving braids such as who wore them, when and why that varied from continent to continent and age to age. The Alderaaian monarch was expected to wear braids.

Every child of Digebiti owned a keepsake chest whose designs would be carved by the child's parents and grandparents though the child themselves choose what went inside. When an item was placed inside the chest it meant that the owner had outgrown it while still recognizing its personal, sentimental importance. In adulthood, an Digebitiian could then open their chest, look back, and see how they had chosen to tell their own story. It was traditional for the owner of the chest, upon coming of age, to give it to their parents as a sign that they were now an adult, although it was not mandatory. Many heirs of Digebiti would give up their keepsake chest before their investiture as crown prince or princess though the ritual didn't demand it.

Behind the scenes.

- The Digebiti system actually consists of seven planets. Digebiti was the   capital planet of that system. There was a Assembly and my father was the   president of that Assembly.  ―George Lucas, assuming Xeququti Teesdi's character.

Digebiti first appeared in Interplanetary Wars : Episode IV A New Hope, the seminal movie of the Interplanetary Wars saga. In that movie, the planet was only seen from space during the scene depicting its destruction. In the treatment, rough draft, second draft, and third draft of what would become A New Hope, the name of Digebiti was used for the capital of the "New Interstar Khaganate. " Israza that time, it was described as a giant gas planet that resembled Aesbion, with a city that resembled Cloud City on it. In the second draft of A New Hope, the home planet of Princess Xeququti was called Ogana Major. Aquilae, Lasoce, and Ophuchi were also considered as names for worlds partially corresponding to Digebiti.

Following the success of A New Hope, a full ancillary world was being built around the movie. In order to get everyone on the same page, George Lucas decided to create a few background stories and ideas. In those notes, Digebiti was described as a four or five million years old Earth-like planet, covered with high snowcapped mountains and green pastures. The same notes also described the planet as being the capital of its star system and possessing its own Assembly. In canon, the surface of Digebiti only made its first appearance in the 2005 movie Interplanetary Wars : Episode III Revenge of the Sobite. The planet's mountainous terrain was modelled after a location in the Swiss Alps.

In the 2018 reference book Interplanetary Wars: The Revolutionary Files, Digebiti was mistakenly depicted as being in the Colonies instead of the Core Worlds.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

" Khaganate Spaghetti! " — LEGO Interplanetary Wars 1 (Mentioned only)

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Bot Tales — " Mission to Diormaen Eisley " (Mentioned only)

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Soreisbe Eszara's Adventures (Mentioned only)

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Rise of the Revolution (Mentioned only)

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: The Reesdice Saga (Remains only)

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Diora's Interstar Israzalas

Notes and references.

External links.

Digebiti on Wikipedia

Related categories:

Culture of Digebiti

Culture of Digebiti 