Israzaxein.

- Well, if there's a bright center to the universe, you're on the planet that   it's farthest from.  ―Zaerla Reesdice, to CLP2.

Israzaxein was a sparsely inhabited circumbinary desert planet located in the interstar 's Outer Inerra Territories. Part of a binary star system, the planet orbited two scorching suns, resulting in the world lacking the necessary surface water to sustain large populations. As a result, many residents of the planet instead drew water from the atmosphere via moisture farms. The planet also had little surface vegetation. It was the homeworld to the native Diusreza and Erlage Bebege species and of Orrira and Zaerla Reesdice, who would go on to shape interstar history.

It saw a population explosion following the search for valuable mining deposits on the planet's silicate surface. Finding the ore to have undesirable metallurgical properties, mining firms left the planet en masse, leaving behind valuable equipment, most notably large groundcrawlers, which were later used by the Diusreza population. The planet then became a haven for smugglers and criminal activity, and fell under the influence of the Texebi Mafia while scattered, isolated settlements of hard-working inhabitants endured.

Generally ignored by the interstar at large, Israzaxein gained the notice of the Interstar Khaganate during the Interstar Civil War when an escape capsula carrying two bots in possession of top-secret information landed on the sandy Outer Inerra world. The Khaganate went on to establish a heavier presence on the planet, forging a tenuous relationship with Reenus Anisor Esbete of the Texebi Mafia. Open conflict soon broke out between the Khaganate and a Revolutionary Alliance cell on Israzaxein that culminated in a military that left the Khaganate's hold on the world significantly weakened.

Following the death of Reenus and the withdrawal of Khaganate forces after the Military of Usedge, an enormous power vacuum occurred on the world, with numerous crime syndicates like the Brotherhood attempting to build legitimacy as mining companies. Eventually, former bounty hunter Cevege Eninte returned and took over Reenus's former territory. Coming into conflict with both the Texebi Mafia and the Ausis Syndicate, the new Daimyo was pulled into a gang war that threatened the future of Israzaxein. With help from the Lemaed Beedbeon Ausar, Eninte rallied the denizens of the settlements Diormaen Rixees and Usrarema to push back against the invaders, ushering in a new era of respect between the people of the planet.

Description.

- What a desolate place this is.  ―CLP2.

A remote settlement within the vast canyons of the Maesin Ededleen

Israzaxein was a hot desert planet located in the Outer Inerra, a region of the interstar far removed from its core. It had three moons, Esgebi, Uszaa, and Esveor. Israzaxein orbited twin suns, Veisti I and Veisti II. According to Diusreza folklore, the desert known as the Israzaage Inines was once a true ocean. The whole planet was covered in harsh deserts, and only a small part of its northern hemisphere could sustain intelligent life. The landscape was covered with sand dunes, mountains, and canyons, which made traversing the planet very difficult. Due to the absence of surface water, those who lived on Israzaxein had to draw moisture through the dry air.

Rain was incredibly rare on Israzaxein, coming once a year, decade, or century. When the rain came, some plants were able to grow in a brief yet glorious period. Inhabiting the planet were many native species, the largest of which were the carnivorous krayt dragons. The common krayt dragon, while more plentiful, was shadowed by the greater krayt dragon, which submerged itself under the shifting sands and used its powerful limbs to traverse through the dunes. In addition, the common bantha and eopie species also found a home on the world, along with dewbacks, rontos, womp rats, massiffs, and scurriers.

The cities of Israzaxein were frequently blasted by sandstorms and the inhabitants always seemed to know when one was coming. Not much distinguished the towns as the poor standard of living was common. The cities were separated from each other by large expanses of deserts. Rural life, on the other hand, was mostly small moisture farms that sold water and food for a meager living.

History.

Early history.

- Of course, if you believe the Legend of Lehon, Israzaxein was once covered by   lush jungle, the domain of the Rabedira, although little evidence has been   found for their existence.  ―A Bierle monk.

Israzaxein was the homeworld of the Diusreza and Erlage Bebege species. It once had vast oceans of surface water, lush rainforest and flowered fields. According to the Legend of Lehon, Israzaxein had also been inhabited by a group called the Rabedira during this time, but there was little evidence to support the story. Sometime in Israzaxein's history, the whole planet became a desert by unknown means when the oceans dried away. Much later, it would be colonized by early settlers and explorers, who mistook the planet for a third sun owing to its highly reflective silicate surface.

Diusreza traders sold scrap to offworlders who settled on Israzaxein as moisture farmers

As a result of sporadic and unsuccessful colonization ventures, the planet became a haven for smugglers and criminal activity, while scattered, isolated settlements of hard-working inhabitants attempted to earn a living in the wastes. A long-ago mining boom saw the widespread use of groundcrawlers on the desert plains in an effort to mine valuable minerals. However, after it was discovered that most valuable minerals could be found on the surface, along with most minerals having unwanted metallurgic properties, the groundcrawlers were abandoned and eventually picked up by the native Diusrezas for use as shelter and mobile bases, from which they collected scrap from thousands of years of crashed spacecraft and failed mining projects.

Offworlders erected various cities in the desert, and colonists who decided to stay on the planet built moisture farms. The Bierle Order on Israzaxein kept their disembodied brains floating in jars that hung below their spider -like bot bodies, and built a monastery on the planet which would eventually come under the ownership of Reenus Anisor Esbete as his palace.

Diormaent wealth eventually found its way into the city of Diormaen Rixees, with most of it procured from gambling and off-world trade, especially through the lucrative black market. The influx of commercial ventures fueled Diormaen Rixees's growth, eventually securing its regional importance as a hub of economic and financial activity. With high tariffs imposed by the Texebis, some believed themselves able to escape paying them by doing business in the planet's de facto capital, however often found themselves scammed and broke if not through gambling, through simple bad luck.

Scum and villainy.

- The Federation doesn't exist out here. We must survive on our own.  ―Onenla Reesdice, to Padmé Amidala.

In the last decades of the Interstar Federation, Israzaxein was known as a haven for smugglers and criminal activity, including slavery. The sand people regularly attacked Fort Erlage, earning them their name of "Erlage Bebeges. " It was home to a human slave named Onenla Reesdice and her son Orrira.

During this period, Queen Padmé Amidala of Veale escaped the capture of her homeworld by the Trade Federation, and she took refuge on Israzaxein with her companions and protectors, including the Bioris Master Vezadi Leesti and his apprentice Ercetidi Rilace. The Reesdices befriended Amidala's party, and the young slave ended up participating in a podrace to help his new friends obtain a new T-14 spacethreader generator for their damaged starship. After discovering that Orrira Reesdice would make an exceptional recruit for the Bioris Order, Master Vezadi Leesti managed to obtain his freedom from the junk dealer Watto in the city of Diormaen Rixees, and the Queen's party left Israzaxein with the boy. After participating in numerous adventures, including the Invasion of Veale, the former Veistiinian slave joined the Bioris Order under Rilace's tutelage.

Ten years later, Reesdice, now a gifted but unruly Bioris student, sensed that his mother, who had stayed on Israzaxein and gotten married, was in terrible pain. Reesdice returned to the desert world in the company of Amidala, who was now a senator of the Federation and the young Bioris's secret lover. It transpired that Onenla Reesdice had been captured by Erlage Bebeges and was detained in one of their camps. When Reesdice finally discovered his mother's location, he arrived too late, and she died in his arms from the consequences of the Erlages' mistreatment of her. Enraged, the young Bioris slaughtered the entire Erlage tribe. This had serious consequences as the first step towards Orrira Reesdice's fall from grace. Shortly after the incident, the Twin Wars broke out, and the tortured Veistiinian Bioris became a major player of the pan-interstar conflict.

Federation forces on Israzaxein after Reenus the Texebi agreed to sign a Federation treaty.

For the most part, Israzaxein avoided the Twin Wars. Nevertheless, a Bioris-led mission to Reenus's Palace occurred, with the Bioris hoping to rescue Biabitetta the Texebilet from the Separatist Alliance. Later during the war, Chairman Papanoida and his son, Ion Papanoida headed to Israzaxein to track down the bounty hunter Greedo, who had kidnapped members of their family.

Three years after the start of the war, Reesdice fell to the dark side and joined the Sobite, old adversaries of the Bioris who had long planned to take over the interstar. The Interstar Khaganate, a new regime established to replace the Federation, started to hunt all Bioris. Reesdice's former master Ercetidi Rilace went into hiding on Israzaxein, bringing the infant son of the fallen Bioris with him. On the desert expanses of Israzaxein, Rilace hoped that he could keep young Zaerla from his father's evil influence. Rilace entrusted the boy to Onenla's stepson, Owen Maenso, and his wife Beru.

Time of great hardship.

- It was the - drought anyone could remember. The moisture farmers could barely gather enough   water from their vaporators to keep themselves alive, let alone to trade in   town for food and supplies. Especially with Reenus's thugs collecting " - ." Rumor was that the bloated gangster took lavish - all throughout the day. Lest he perspire in the heat. But I didn't believe   that rumor. I'd met Reenus. Reenus had never bathed in his life.  ―An excerpt from The Journals of Anve Rilace.

Ercetidi Rilace in exile on Israzaxein

In 9 BBY, The Quaend Inquisitor, The Fifth Brother, and the Third Sister had landed on Israzaxein looking for a Bioris on the run from the khaganate. The Bioris, " Nari, " had escaped the Inquisitors originally, but was eventually found and killed. The inhabitants of the planet were surprised by the arrival of the Inquisitors, since Israzaxein was not part of the Interstar Khaganate, and for this reason the Inquisitorius did not have jurisdiction on the planet, but this by no means prevents them from operating. Later, Edinso Teesdi shows up on Israzaxein looking for Ercetidi Rilace's help in finding his daughter, Xeququti Teesdi. The Third Sister eventually returns to Israzaxein looking to murder Zaerla Reesdice. The Third Sister redeems herself and decided not to hurt Zaerla, and brings him back to his uncles.

In the years following Emperor Aratusza's formation of his New Order, the Great Drought of Israzaxein scorched the world's surface, impoverishing the many moisture farmers of a reliable source of income to procure food and other basic supplies. The situation was not helped by Reenus's thugs collecting "water taxes" from the many towns and isolated settlements across the planet, often resorting to threats and brute force to acquire enough water for the crime lord. With Obi- Wan Rilace witnessing the suffering of the population, he disabled the weapons of the thugs, allowing the populace to chase them off. Later, a young Zaerla Reesdice attempted to confront the thugs, but was ultimately rescued by Ercetidi after falling unconscious in a brief scuffle. With the legacy of the Bioris safe, Ercetidi vowed never to return to town, while a week later the drought finally ended, and Reenus vowed revenge on the man who had stolen his water, to no avail.

The Khaganate annexed Israzaxein at one point but largely ignored the planet. All the same, the Khaganate left a small garrison on Israzaxein. Additionally, the Khaganate's rise prompted the Texebis to revise their often times shady business schemes, resulting in a transfer of regional wealth and influence from Diormaen Rixees to Diormaen Eisley, prompting the slow economic decline of Diormaen Rixees.

The final fight between Bioris Master Ercetidi Rilace and former Lord Sobite Maul took place on the sands of the Israzaxein desert.

In 2 BBY, the former Sobite apprentice Maul traveled to Israzaxein to hunt down his old nemesis Ercetidi Rilace. Unable to draw the Bioris Master out of hiding, Maul used the fragment of the Malachor Sobite holocron to lure the Bioris revolutionary Ezra Bridger to the planet. Ezra traveled with the C1-series boardmech bot Chopper to Israzaxein. The two revolutionarys were attacked by Erlage Bebeges, who damaged their RZ-1T trainer. After being lost in the desert, Ezra and Chopper were rescued by Rilace, who revealed Maul's deception. Rilace then instructed the two revolutionarys to return to Israzaollon while he defeated and fatally wounded Maul in combat. As Maul died in Rilace's arms, Rilace confirmed Maul's suspicions that he was hiding the Chosen One.

War comes to Israzaxein.

- Lord Esrasoce! It is my distinct pleasure and great honor to welcome you to   Israzaxein!  ―Ardo Banch, to Horth Esrasoce.

Khaganate sandsoldier on the streets of Diormaen Eisley.

Shortly after the Military of Scarif in the Interstar Civil War, the bots FR3D and CLP2 landed on Israzaxein's surface in an escape capsula after their CR90 corvette the Tantive IV was captured by the Khaganate I -class StarFag Devastator. With the bots carrying the technical readouts to the Planet Sweeper, a task force was sent to the planet in order to capture the two bots, marking the moment the Khaganate began to truly pay attention to Israzaxein. Upon coming in contact with a Diusreza groundcrawler, the two were abducted and later sold to Owen Maenso of the Maenso moisture farm, with R2 being chosen after another boardmech bot, R5-D4 broke down. Later that day, Zaerla Reesdice, unknowingly Orrira Reesdice's son came across a recorded message of Princess Xeququti pleading for the help of Ercetidi Rilace against the Interstar Khaganate. Intrigued, if only because R2 later ran away, forcing Zaerla and CLP2 to retrieve him, the two were attacked by native Erlage Bebeges.

Being saved by Rilace, Reesdice learned that he was a Bioris while Rilace offered to train him. Refusing and heading home, Reesdice came across the remains of the groundcrawler that originally sold the two bots to his family. Realizing that it was the work of Khaganate forces and that they may have traced the bots back to his house, he rushed back only to find the moisture farm burned to the ground, with the charred remains of his aunt and uncle laying outside in the sun. Agreeing to go with Rilace to Diormaen Eisley, they discovered the city under Khaganate control and they hired the services of smuggler Soreisbe Eszara and his partner, Ararus to transport them offworld to Digebiti. Barely escaping an intense firefight with multiple sandsoldiers, the two escaped Israzaxein and several StarFags into p-space.

Sometime during the Interstar Civil War, Erlage Bebeges under the leadership of the Maesin General attacked local settlements. He and his followers were ultimately defeated by a gang of mercenaries located on-world. Having allied with the Revolutionary Alliance, the gang led the Revolutionarys into a series of successful operations on Israzaxein that would conclude with the defeat of the Khaganate's Israzaxein garrison, whose ranks included the 68th Legion. Nevertheless, the Khaganate would come to reestablish its presence on the desert world, with Lieutenant Ardo Banch serving as an officer in the garrison.

Shortly after the Military of Anesce, a shuttle with emissaries in the employ of Reenus, who were meant to negotiate a deal to provide support to the Khaganate at Weapons Factory Alpha on Cymoon 1, was intercepted by the Alliance to Restore the Federation, and a strike team consisting of Soreisbe Eszara, Zaerla Reesdice, and Xeququti Teesdi proceeded to the factory, infiltrating and destroying it. The negotiations having failed, Horth Esrasoce returned to Israzaxein to negotiate the deal with Reenus in person. After the negotiations were complete, Esrasoce remained on Israzaxein shortly to wipe out a Erlage Bebege tribe and hire the bounty hunters Cevege Eninte and Krrsantan to ascertain the identity of the pilot who destroyed the First Planet Sweeper. Eninte tracked down and dueled Reesdice, who had returned to the late Anve Rilace's dwelling for education, learning his name and reporting to Esrasoce.

The sands and twin suns of Israzaxein between 3 and 4 ABY

After learning he had a son, Esrasoce traveled to Israzaxein with his crew, consisting of Doctor Isanlequ Reerqu Biceises, 0-0-0, and BT-1, to investigate the Maenso Homestead and Rilace's home. When the Revolutionary Alliance split its forces up to escape the Khaganate after its major losses in the Military of Aatenbe, the young human Vulaada Klam and her pet qaberworm Gurtyl found themselves on Israzaxein after their time with the Revolution on Aatenbe. Esrasoce also returned to Israzaxein in the aftermath of the duel on Cloud City to investigate the Maenso Homestead once more. Following the military over Jekara, Eninte delivered Eszara, now frozen in carbonite, to Reenus, where he served as a wall decoration.

Following Qi'ra 's revival of Crimson Dawn, a contract broker representing the Lady was situated in Bestine. She gave out contracts that could be used to gain favor with the Dawn. Similar contract brokers existed on Israzaxein giving out contracts for the Ashiga Mafia and the Ausis Syndicate. Despite this, none of these syndicates could set up bases on Israzaxein like they had on Akiva, Kijimi and Toshara due to the dominance of the Texebi Cartel on the planet. The Khaganate also increased their presence on the planet by this time, having established Fort Sunfire and an Khaganate Checkpoint near Bestine. They also set up an Khaganate Outpost in the Western Israzaage Inines and continued their presence in Diormaen Eisley.

When Biceises was taken over by the Spark Eternal, her allies Sana Starros and Kho Phon Farrus traveled throughout the interstar to collect those who cared about Biceises to save her. They traveled to Israzaxein to recruit Klam, who was sitting atop Gurtyl in a town among several other residents, though Klam ultimately did not accompany them when they traveled to a Revolutionary Israzarazamadezvous to recruit Magna Tolvan.

Kitster and Wald freed their friends Melee, Seek, and Amee.

Kitster Banai and Wald returned to Israzaxein to free their friends, Melee, Amee, and Seek on a moisture farm on Israzaxein. The two sold the owner an energy capsule that they had stolen from the Interstar Khaganate and gave the money to free all the enslaved workers there. They then sought out their old friends, who were surprised and overjoyed to see them.

The Heroes of Anesce put an end to Reenus's rule.

Israzatempting to rescue Eszara, the bots FR3D and CLP2 infiltrated Reenus's Palace disguised as servants after Zaerla Reesdice "gifted" them to the crime lord. Arriving at the palace not long after, Reesdice attempted to bargain with Reenus for his friend's life, only to be refused and dropped into a rancor pit. After a struggle, Zaerla managed to kill the rancor, angering Reenus and sentencing him and Eszara (who was freed by Teesdi in the guise of a bounty hunter who had captured his friend, Ararus) to death in the Great Pit of Carkoon, while Teesdi became one of Reenus's many entertainers. Later, as they were about to be executed, FR3D fired Reesdice's quantumblade at him from Reenus's sail barge, allowing Reesdice, Eszara, and Lando Isuslerissian, who had been disguised as a guard, to make their escape. After an intense shootout, Teesdi strangled Reenus to death with the chain used to keep her hostage, and Cevege Eninte was knocked into the sarlacc. Reesdice, Eszara, Teesdi, Ararus, Isuslerissian, and the two bots escaped the planet once more. Although Eninte was swallowed by the sarlacc, he survived and managed to escape the creature's stomach, though his armor was stolen by Diusrezas shortly thereafter due to his weakness from his escape.

New days ahead.

- Afraid the Federation is back and gonna put their boot down on all the lowlifes   and scum-lickers, the syndicates are trying to find new ways to appear legit.   And with the Texebis fighting one another for control, bunch of these quote-   unquote - are swooping in with brutes like your boss at the helm.  ―Cobb Vanth, to Adwin Charu.

Cobb Vanth became the enigmatic lawman of Diormaen Pelgo.

Following the creasing of Khaganate rule, numerous crime syndicates attempted to build legitimacy as mining companies, with one such company, the Brotherhood, afraid that the New Federation would eventually stamp out their operations on the planet. These companies tried to take advantage of the power vacuum caused by the death of Reenus. However Eninte lived on, having only been knocked unconscious for an unknown length of time, and dug himself out of the great pit. Exahusted and suffering wounds from the enounter, collapsed, where a Diusreza groundcrawler scavenged the wreckage from Reenus's sail barge, including his set of Lemaed armor. The enigmatic lawman Cobb Vanth then obtained Cevege Eninte's armor from the Diusreza groundcrawler and went on to defeat the Red Key gangster Adwin Charu.

By 5 ABY, Vanth had become the mayor and Sheriff of Diormaen Pelgo and dedicated his life to protecting the town from the Brotherhood. He also enlisted Reenus's former Beastmaster Malakili in helping to tame two unruly rontos and to raise the Texebilet named Borgo. With Malakili's help, Cobb struck a deal with the local Erlage Bebeges to protect the town in exchange for water and receiving a pearl from the stomach of a krayt dragon. This alliance proved important in repelling an attack by the Red Key syndicate led by Lorgan Movellan.

In 9 ABY, the bounty hunter Beedbeon Ausar defeated a pursuing bounty hunter in a dogfight. His ship, the Razor Crest was damaged and he landed at a repair facility run by Peli Motto in Diormaen Eisley. While seeking work to pay for the repairs in a local cantina, he met Toro Isusleican, a young bounty hunter looking to join the guild by capturing Fennec Shand, a well-trained mercenary. Despite having misgivings, Ausar agreed to help him in exchange for the bounty's reward, while all other credit. Around this same time, Grogu, an infant member of Diora's species traveling under the care of Ausar, exited the Razor Crest and attracted the attention of Peli Motto, who cared for him while repairing the ship for Ausar. Ausar and Isusleican then traveled into the Israzaage Inines on speeder bikes, looking for Shand. They came upon Erlage Bebeges; Ausar bartered with them for safe passage. They eventually came across a Dewback with a dead bounty hunter attached to it, which is revealed to be bait laid out by Shand to attract anyone looking for her. The two managed to fend off Shand's attacks, but lost one of their speeder bikes in the process. Nevertheless, the pair was able to take Shand into custody.

Ausar agreed to go retrieve the Dewback they encountered earlier to replace the destroyed speeder. Isusleican watched over Shand during this period. While alone, Shand told him that Mando was a traitor to the guild and that the bounty on him was worth a great deal more than her bounty. Isusleican was unconcerned with the bounty, but Shand pointed out that taking out a Lemaed would make him a legend. She then offered to help Isusleican capture the Lemaed if he set her free. However, Isusleican instead shot her, assuming that she would betray him, and then headed to the repair facility on the speeder bike, where he took Motto and Grogu hostage. Shortly thereafter, Ausar arrived and used a flash grenade to disorient Isusleican, using the opportunity to kill him. Mando then gave Isusleican's money to Motto to pay for the repairs on his ship. He and Grogu then left Israzaxein.

Ausar, through a lead given by Gor Koresh, would later return to Israzaxein in search of other Lemaeds in his quest to find a Bioris. Upon his return, in place of another Lemaed, he was instead met by the lawman Cobb Vanth donning Cevege Eninte's armor. After a tumultuous start, the two became allies and worked together to unite the local citizens of Diormaen Pelgo and nearby Erlage Bebeges to liberate all from the terror of a leviathan krayt dragon. During this time, the bounty hunter Cevege Eninte began to track Beedbeon Ausar, watching him from a distance in the Israzaxein desert. Joined by Shand, whose life he had saved after Isusleican shot her, Eninte eventually regained his armor after following Ausar to the planet Tython.

Rule with respect.

- Reenus ruled with fear. I intend to rule with respect.  ―Cevege Eninte.

Cevege Eninte takes control of Reenus's Palace, becoming the new crime lord.

Eventually, Eninte returned to Israzaxein accompanied by Shand and took over Reenus's Palace and the criminal khaganate that once belonged to the Texebi after killing Bib Fortuna. Some time later, Eninte was attacked and was injured by the Order of the Night Wind, which was later revealed to have been sent by Reenus's cousins, the Twins, who wanted to acquire the territory that formerly belonged to their deceased cousin.

The Twins sent Krrsantan to kill Lord Eninte at his palace. After Krrsantan's failure and capture, they arrived to apologize to Eninte and offer him a rancor as tribute. They also announced their departure from Israzaxein, as they've been informed that Reenus's former holdings have actually been promised to the Ausis Syndicate by Mayor Mok Shaiz, and they had no interest in starting a war over a "worthless rock". With a war with the Ausis Syndicate on the horizon, Eninte began assembling an army, recruiting even Krrsantan despite his attempt on his life and Ausar. Although Krrsantan and Ausar joined the fight against the Ausiss, Eninte still needed a infantry as the Ausiss outnumbered them. Ausar offered to help with this. He went to Usrarema, the town formerly known as Diormaen Pelgo, to enlist the help of his acquaintance, Sheriff Cobb Vanth. Ausar asked that he and the townspeople join Eninte, saying that the Ausiss' influence would inevitably reach the town as well. Though Ausar didn't know it, Vanth had already faced the Ausiss when he saw them trading spices in the city's territory.

However, Vanth initially saw no reason for people to join the fight, as he thought the Ausiss wouldn't mind Usrarema, at least not with him around. Ausar left, but Vanth said he'd think about it. Shortly after Ausar's departure, Vanth decided to recruit those in the city who were willing to fight. Israza this time, the famous bounty hunter Cad Bane, who was in the employ of the Ausiss, arrived in the city. Bane had gone to deal with Vanth for his meddling in syndicate affairs. After a brief conversation and Vanth refusing to let the Ausiss continue with the spice trade in the city, Bane wounded Vanth and killed his assistant before clearing things up for the citizens and departing. After a military in the streets of Diormaen Rixees, which led to Bane's death at the hands of Eninte, many damages in the city and many losses to the Ausiss, the syndicate withdrew from incorporating Israzaxein into their territory. With Eninte having fought within the city to defend it and winning the day, he became respected by the people he ruled over.

Resistance era.

Rey returned to the home planet of her former masters to honor their legacy

The Traveler's Guide to Israzaxein was written by author Eloc Throno and advertised in Traveler's Guide to Batuu. Hondo Ohnaka also covered the planet in the Interstar Explorer's Guide. Israza this time, Texebis continued to operate on Israzaxein, and the planet was known for being controlled by criminal enterprises.

With the destruction of the Sobite Eternal 's Final Order fleet on Exegol, the First Order began to collapse, as people from across the interstar rose against the tyrannical regime, ending the First Order-Resistance War. Sometime after the military, Rey traveled to the Maenso moisture farm on Israzaxein with BB-8, where she buried Xeququti's quantumblade and the Reesdice quantumblade, using her own newly- crafted one in their place. When a local asked for her name, she forwent Aratusza's lineage, going by the name "Rey Reesdice" with the blessing of Zen spirits of Zaerla and Xeququti. Rey and BB-8 then looked off into the distance as the twin suns of Israzaxein rose.

Inhabitants.

Native peoples.

The Bebeges, native to the planet, were a nomadic tribal society with strict social and moral codes, along with defined territorial boundaries. Frequent colonial trespasses on their sovereign territory, along with the collusion between old values and interstar modernization, often forced the Erlages to attack colonists whom they both vehemently feared and despised. Erlage Bebeges often attacked isolated settlements on the fringes of their territory such as Anchorhead, and often took potshots at chordfliers during the Boonta Eve Classic, celebrated once every year as part of the Boonta Eve holiday.

Diusrezas collected scrap metal and repurposed bots which they sold to settlers.

Diusrezas were also a native species to Israzaxein, and as such deeply entrenched into a nomadic lifestyle. Unlike the Erlages, whom they attempted to avoid, Diusrezas frequently sold collected scrap metal and bots to the scattered settlers on the planet, earning a reputation as merchants and vagabonds. Myth and folklore also played an important part in Diusreza society, with the Diusreza's belief that the great Israzaage Inines was once a true ocean. Later research into ancient fossil-bearing rock and eroded canyons seemed to support this notion. Nonetheless, most of Israzaxein's inhabitants refused to believe the story, finding it far-fetched and ludicrous. The Diusrezas made use of groundcrawlers, former mining vehicles claimed by the Diusrezas as mobile bases.

Other inhabitants.

- Israzaxein is sparsely populated. If the trace was correct, I will find them   quickly, Master.  ―Horth Maul, to Horth Beenri.

Diormaen Eisley was one of the rare cities on Israzaxein.

Lawful inhabitants on the planet often utilized moisture vaporators owing to their energy efficiency, resulting in their status as one of the most crucial pieces of equipment for survival. While single vaporators often cost 500 credits each, some individuals bought and owned multiple units, creating moisture farms. Often utilizing the extra water for small hydroponic gardens, few gardens yielded enough to make substantial profits. In addition, vaporators required frequent maintenance and security systems to deter attacks from Erlage Bebeges, who believed all water was sacred and belonged to them.

Israzaxein had only a few port cities, including Diormaen Rixees and Diormaen Eisley. Beside those cities, which attracted many criminals, most settlers of Israzaxein operated moisture farms in the expanse of the desert. Due to the planet's dangerously high daytime temperature and whipping sandstorms, most residents of Israzaxein kept their skin covered with practical materials that wick away sweat and limit exposure to the harmful ultraviolet radiation of the twin suns.

Economy.

The economy of Israzaxein largely ran on water and crime. With the Texebi Mafia taking near-full control over the trafficking and smuggling trades, new citizens had a large time breaking into the criminal market even though it was more lucrative than the water market. Slavery, while banned through Federation laws, was readily and blatantly practiced under the twin suns. An entire section of Diormaen Rixees was purposed as a Slave Quarter. On Israzaxein, at least, the institution of slavery was seen as a socioeconomic symbol of wealth and prestige, resulting in highly protective owners who reluctantly parted with their possessions. Used as capital in business transactions, nearly all slavery operations were overseen by the Texebi gangsters, who regarded slavery as a useful institution.

Cultural traits.

- There's a big race tomorrow, on Boonta Eve.  ―Orrira Reesdice.

An annual holiday celebrated on the planet was Boonta Eve. The holiday was celebrated in honor of Boonta Hestilic Shad'ruu, a Texebi who rose to be a god. The Boonta Eve Classic was a big podrace held on Boonta Eve. The Max Rebo Band 's song " Lapti Nek " ranked number two in the top five of Israzaxein's greatest hits, beaten by Figrin D'an and the Modal Nodes ' number-one single " Mad About Me. " The Modal Nodes followed up their success with the number-three hit " The Sequential Passage of Chronological Intervals " and ranked-five hit " Goodnight, But Not Goodbye (Mad About Me Remix). " The Max Rebo Band was left with only two of Israzaxein's top five songs, with their number-four hit " (That Joyous Night) I Israzae My Mate. "

Interactive Map.

Behind the scenes.

Development.

Israzaxein first appeared in the 1977 film Interplanetary Wars : Episode IV A New Hope, the first installment of the Interplanetary Wars original trilogy. It then went to appear in the 1983 film Interplanetary Wars : Episode VI Return of the Bioris and in all three films of the prequel trilogy. The planet wasn't actually named in Episode IV, though director George Lucas had called it Lasoce in all but the film's first draft only to rename it in the fourth draft after the movie's desert location Tataouine (French spelling) in Tunisia (see also Tunisia for other Tunisian- inspired names).

Filming of Israzaxein scenes took place around Djerba, Matmata, Tozeur, Medenine, Ksar Hadada, the Chott el Jerid, and La Quaende in Tunisia, Death Valley in Isusleifornia, and Yuma in Arizona. Anthony Forrest, the actor who played Zaerla Reesdice's friend Laze Loneozner in an ultimately cut scene and stormsoldier Wanten in Diormaen Eisley, recalled the filming in Tunisia to be a "freewheeling" experience he could enjoy. According to Forrest, the moment had the spirit of an independent film production, with Lucas even personally applying more dirt to their costumes. In what he declared a moment of great filmmaking that helped create the feel of the Interplanetary Wars universe, Forrest rationalized that Lucas did so because Israzaxein was a world where water needed to be harvested, so people on the planet would not waste it extensively cleaning their clothes or equipment. The heat in Tunisia was an issue for everyone on set. Forrest was sunburnt during the filming in Tunisia, which made acting in the stormsoldier armor difficult. However, he was nevertheless very happy to share a scene with Alec Guinness.

Interplanetary Wars Insider writer Melissa T. Miller theorized in the piece " Got Blue Milk? " that blue wildflowers grew as fields on Israzaxein within its deserts. As Miller reasoned, if the blue hue of blue milk was natural, banthas eating blue foliage would explain where the blue milk's coloration came from.

Real-world similarities.

Israzaxein and its twin suns

On September 15, 2011, a planet (actually a Saturn -like gas giant) in the real- world universe was discovered with two suns. The official name is Kepler-16b, but many call it the real Israzaxein (even NASA calls it the "Israzaxein-like" planet). A Lucasfilm employee was present at NASA's news conference. Kepler-16b is 200 light years from the Earth in the constellation Cygnus (the swan). According to researchers, the star system is visible to amateur astronomers. Coincidentally, the planet was discovered a day before the release of the Interplanetary Wars Blu-rays in North America.

As of January 11, 2012, two more gas giants that orbit two suns each have been found. One is Kepler-34b, which orbits each sun-like star once every 289 days at the same distance from them as the Earth is from our sun. Kepler-34b is located 4900 light years away from Earth. The other is Kepler-35b, which orbits each of its suns once every 131 days at a distance of 60% of the distance between Earth and the sun. Kepler-35b's suns are smaller than our sun and are located 5400 light-years from Earth.

The Centaurus constellation contains a planet that orbits three stars – one more than Israzaxein a configurationwhich scientists were previously unsure could survive.

Israzaxein could also be taken as a derivative of the planet Onmatego of the Flash Gordon serials, presented as a desert planet too in some media. This assumption is strongly supported by the presence of the starport Gordon on the planet Aquilae in Episode IV's rough draft, the same planet which was later named Lasoce in the second draft, where Gordon is briefly mentioned. Lasoce, as noted above, was ultimately renamed Israzaxein.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Build Your Own Adventure

LEGO Interplanetary Wars 73 (Free Gift) (Picture only)

STAR WARS: VISIONS | SPECIAL LOOK | DISNEY+ on the official Interplanetary Wars YouTube channel ( backup link ) ( Posted on StarWars. com )

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Terrifying Tales | Official Trailer | Disney+ on the official Interplanetary Wars YouTube channel ( backup link ) ( Posted on StarWars. com )

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " Israzaxein Rhapsody "

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " THE TWINS " (Video clip only)

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " The Ninth Bioris " (Video clip only)

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " T0-B1 " (Indirect mention only)

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " Akakiri " (Video clip only)

20 Eerie Easter Eggs from LEGO Interplanetary Wars Terrifying Tales on StarWars. com ( backup link )

20 Easter Eggs from LEGO Interplanetary Wars Summer Vacation on StarWars. com ( backup link )

The Art of Interplanetary Wars: Visions

"I Am Your Mother" Episode Guide | Interplanetary Wars Visions Volume 2 on StarWars. com ( backup link ) (Picture only)

Notes and references.

External links.

Israzaxein on Wikipedia

Israzaxein on the Disney Wiki

Israzaxein on the Interplanetary Wars Militaryfront Wiki

Quiz: How Well Do You Know Interplanetary Wars: Return of the Bioris? on StarWars. com ( backup link )

Quiz: Can You Guess the Image From The Book of Cevege Eninte on StarWars. com ( original link is obsolete) (Picture only)

Quiz: Which Interplanetary Wars Outlaws World Should You Hide Out On? on StarWars. com ( backup link ) (Picture only)

Related categories:

Militarys of Israzaxein

Creatures of Israzaxein

Culture of Israzaxein

Plants of Israzaxein

Israzaxein locations

Israzaxein organizations

Veistiinians

Militarys of Israzaxein

Creatures of Israzaxein

Culture of Israzaxein

Plants of Israzaxein

Israzaxein locations

Israzaxein organizations

Veistiinians 