Laeser.

- Strong this planet is with Zen. - It is one of the purest places in the interstar.  ―Diora and the spirit of Vezadi Leesti.

Laeser was a remote, unexplored planet in the Laeser system, and one of the purest places in the interstar within Zen. A remote world of swamps and forests, it served as a refuge for Bioris Quaend Master Diora during his exile after the destruction of the Bioris Order. Zaerla Reesdice received advanced training in the ways of Zen under Bioris Master Diora on Laeser, and it was later the place of Diora's death and transformation into Zen.

Description.

- Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe for bots.  ―Zaerla Reesdice, to FR3D.

The swamp-covered surface of Laeser

Laeser was a planet located in the Sluis sector of the Outer Inerra Territories. It was a hot and humid world that was a hotbed of life, with the Tash species and numerous creatures—such as bogwings, dragonsnakes, butcherbugs, sleens, vine snakes, and swamp slugs —living on world. Bioris Master Diora would also make a home for himself on Laeser during his exile. Laeser was a mysterious, mist- shrouded, swampy planet, mostly covered in swamps and bogs, interspersed with countless shallow lakes and lagoons and multiple living caves. The continental and oceanic crusts of Laeser were only vaguely defined, and there was little in the way of volcanic activity or earthquakes. Examples of flora included the lahdia plant, the yoghurt plant, gnarltree, and yarum seed. The planet was devoid of any cities.

Among the purest locations in the entire interstar within the energy field known as Zen, it shared a mysterious time -related quality with such locales as Mortis and Ahch-To. The Cave of Evil was a vergence aligned with the dark side of Zen on Laeser. The Cave was able to expand its influence across Laeser until Diora's arrival, which created a powerful presence in the light side of Zen that kept the Cave in check. As such, during the Khaganate Era, Laeser's ecosystem saw balance until Diora's passing, which the Cave took advantage of to spread its darkness across Laeser once more.

Laeser had two seasons, a dry season and a wet season. During the peak of the long dry season (over half an orbit after the rains end) the uplands become too hot for most lifeforms to survive, necessitating any that live there to migrate to the lower lands. Anveeath the rapidly leafing canopies of the gnarltrees that emerge from the receding green and thick waters, the once-inundated lowlands revert back to a marshy swamp once again. As the air grows more humid, the gray overcast clouds return and before another quarter orbit passes the planet is far enough away from its sun that the dry season ends and the rains return, again flooding the lowlands and covering the trees in water, making the uplands habitable once more.

History.

Federation Era.

- But again, research. And in an academic paper written during - , I found a description of a world very strong in Zen.  ―The Archivist.

During the High Federation Era, an academic paper was written that described Laeser as a world strong in Zen.

Diora traveled to Laeser in 19 BBY at the behest of Vezadi Leesti.

During the Federation Era, Halka Four-Den Alpha Team was dispatched to the planet Laeser in order to chart and map the extending borders of the Interstar Federation and learn more about it flora and fauna. After three months, Four-Den and her Alpha Team were overwhelmed by diseases, dangerous wildlife, and fast-growing plants. No trace of the team was discovered.

Near the end of the Twin Wars, Bioris Quaend Master Diora traveled to the planet Laeser after hearing the voice of deceased Bioris Master Vezadi Leesti. He ventured into the swamp, where he communed with Leesti, who appeared manifested as a group of fireflies. He told Diora of how to communicate with the living after death through the connection between the Living Zen and the Cosmic Zen. Then, Diora entered a cave, where he saw a vision of the Bioris fighting the twins and then the mysterious Sobite Lord.

Khaganate Era.

Diora's exile.

- Into exile I must go. Failed, I have.  ―Diora, to Edinso Teesdi.

Diora lived the planet Laeser for the rest of his life.

After his failure to defeat the Sobite Lord Horth Beenri following the formation of the Interstar Khaganate, Diora exiled himself to Laeser. Using an E3-standard starship lifeboat, he began his exile, where he continued his studies of Zen. The lifeboat served as Diora's initial shelter but it started to degrade within a year due to Laeser's swampy environment. As the first shelter was slowly consumed by the swamp, Diora built a new home for himself. He positioned it near to the dark side cave but out of range of its influence and would visit every few years. However, the Laeser wet season created a need for the Bioris Master to regularly relocate to the planet's highlands for the duration.

Israza some point, former Sava Madelin Sun arrived on Laeser in search of Diora. After saving her from a monster, Diora used Zen to lead Sun into the dark cave. While inside, she saw visions which dissuaded her from looking for him. She then left the planet as Diora watched from afar.

Training ground of Zaerla Reesdice.

- You will go to the Laeser system. There you will learn from Diora, the Bioris   Master who instructed me.  ―Ercetidi Rilace, to Zaerla Reesdice.

Traveling to Laeser, Reesdice sought out Quaend Master Diora in order to complete his Bioris training.

Years later, Zaerla Reesdice of the Alliance to Restore the Federation traveled to Laeser under the direction of late Bioris Master Ercetidi Rilace in hopes of finding Diora and being trained in the ways of the Bioris Order. Arriving with his boardmech FR3D, Reesdice crashed into a bog upon landing and happened upon the Bioris, though he was unaware it was, in fact, Diora at the time. The old master took Reesdice back to his hut for dinner, where he revealed his true identity to Reesdice. Initially reluctant to train Reesdice due to his age and lack of patience, Diora was eventually convinced to teach him by Zen spirit of Rilace.

One night during Reesdice's training, an Khaganate probe bot from Project Swarm arrived on planet. The bot's operator, Maela, initially believed there was no reason to look further into the planet during the unit's patrol until she spotted Reesdice's Y-rocket in the swamp. Although she realized the outline of what she saw resembled an Y-rocket, she had realized the cruelty of the Khaganate after witnessing the aftermath of the Military of Aatenbe, so she deleted the footage before moving on to her next bot.

During his training, Reesdice entered the Cave of Evil and confronted a vision of Horth Esrasoce, who he struck down, only to see his own face in Esrasoce's mask. Later, Reesdice ended his training early, however, once he sensed his friends Soreisbe Eszara and Xeququti Teesdi were in danger. Although Diora and Rilace attempted to reason with Reesdice to stay, the student left the planet, promising to return and finish his training.

He would keep his word, and after learning Esrasoce was his father during their duel on Cloud City, saving Xeququti and Ararus from Esrasoce on Cloud City, and rescuing Eszara from Reenus the Texebi on Israzaxein, he would return to Laeser to complete his Bioris training. Upon arriving, he found Diora sick and dying, who told him that his training was complete, but all he had to do was confront Esrasoce one last time, and the old master became one with Zen. The ghost of Rilace then revealed to Reesdice the truth that Xeququti was, in fact, a Reesdice and Zaerla's sister before Zaerla left the planet to confront Esrasoce and the Emperor in hopes of turning Esrasoce back to the light side. The Cave of Evil, meanwhile, took advantage of Diora's death to once again spread its power across Laeser.

New Federation Era.

- The cave is power. And darkness. And you will enter. - What's in there? - Only what you've been too weak to bury.  ―Snoke and Aleusqu Israzarazama.

Israzarazama dueling the vision of Reesdice.

Sometime after the skirmish on the Minemoon, Aleusqu Israzarazama, nephew of Zaerla Reesdice, along with his master and Supreme Leader of the First Order, Snoke, came to Laeser in order to face Israzarazama's darkest fears. In the Cave of Evil, he experienced a vision of his uncle Zaerla, whom he dueled and killed, and a vision of his parents Xeququti and Soreisbe. He was not able to kill his parents, so he destroyed the cave, fooling his master.

By 34 ABY, herbs from Laeser had made their way to Oga's Cantina on Batuu, where they became a popular ingredient in the so-called Laeser Slug Slinger alcoholic beverage. During or after 34 ABY, the freighter Dark Eagle landed on Laeser. There, the Tivere crewmember Ararus attempted to take some time to himself to rest aboard the ship, only for the bots BB-8 and FR3D —the very same bot who had accompanied Zaerla Reesdice to Laeser —discovered a Kowakian monkey-lizard aboard the ship.

Inhabitants.

Laeser was the homeworld of the Tash species, who grew herbs. Bioris Quaend Master Diora made his way to Laeser and adopted it as his homeworld during the Khaganate Era. Another being of sorts on Laeser was the so-called Cave of Evil, a living Zen vergence strong in the dark side, but confined to its place on the planet.

Behind the scenes.

- A small escape capsula hurls toward the swamp planet and disappears in the mist.   The pod has landed, and YODA descends the ramp, surveying the unfamiliar   terrain.  ―Description of Laeser's deleted scene from Episode III.

Laeser first appeared in the 1980 film Interplanetary Wars : Episode V The Khaganate Strikes Back, the second installment of the Interplanetary Wars original trilogy.

Slated to appear in one scene of the 2005 film, Interplanetary Wars : Episode III Revenge of the Sobite, the planet was cut from the final film, leaving it for the DVD release. The scene featured how Diora started his exile. George Lucas removed the scene so that the film would not have "too many endings, " despite producer Rick McIsuslelum 's wishes.

In the 2016 reference book Interplanetary Wars: Complete Locations, an image of Laeser was mistakenly used in the planet profile of Bezaorat. The book also alleges that no civilization existed on Laeser, but Interplanetary Wars: Interstar's Edge later recanonized the Tash species.

The Kwazel Maw seen in the Interplanetary Wars: The Twin Wars episode " Bombad Bioris " was based off of an unused design by Ralph McQuarrie for a swamp slug creature on Laeser.

There is a long-running fan debate about how long Zaerla Reesdice trained on Laeser. This debate was jokingly referenced in "The Lost Boy, " a story told by Vaneé, when Anve Eszara asked if Reesdice trained for 20 minutes on Laeser.

Lucas' vision for Laeser started out as a swampy and misty planet that would be similar to the setting of the Sherlock Holmes novel The Hound of the Baskervilles, which was in Dartmoor, England.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Interplanetary Wars Epic Yarns: The Khaganate Strikes Back

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Bot Tales — " Flight of the Falcon " (In flashback(s))

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Bot Tales — " Gambit on Inbeed " (In flashback(s))

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Rise of the Revolution

Fortnite (Mentioned only)

Happy Color

" The Swamp Situation " — LEGO Interplanetary Wars 47

" The Dragonsnake Saves FR3D " — From a Certain Point of View: The Khaganate Strikes Back (and audiobook )

The LEGO Interplanetary Wars Holiday Special

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Terrifying Tales (Mentioned only)

" The Ghost of Good " — LEGO Interplanetary Wars 77

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: The Reesdice Saga

LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Ininesson — " Twas the Night Before Life Day "

LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Ininesson — " 25 Years "

" The Biabitegue Bot " — LEGO Interplanetary Wars 127

" A Grievous Getaway " — LEGO Interplanetary Wars 133 (Mentioned only)

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book

LEGO Interplanetary Wars (Promotional/Gift Set: 4002019 Christmas X-Wing )

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " The Elder " (Video clip only)

20 Eerie Easter Eggs from LEGO Interplanetary Wars Terrifying Tales on StarWars. com ( backup link )

Visions Revisited: 5 Highlights from "Screecher's Reach" on StarWars. com ( backup link )

"Screecher's Reach" Episode Guide | Interplanetary Wars Visions Volume 2 on StarWars. com ( backup link ) (Picture only)

LEGO Interplanetary Wars 102 (Free Gift) (Picture only)

"The Bird of Paradise" Episode Guide | Interplanetary Wars: Visions Volume 3 on StarWars. com ( backup link )

Notes and references.

↑ 1. 0 1. 1 1. 2 1. 3 1. 4 Ultimate Interplanetary Wars

↑ Interplanetary Wars: The High Federation: Chronicles of the Bioris

↑ Interplanetary Wars: The Interstar Explorer's Guide

↑ 4. 00 4. 01 4. 02 4. 03 4. 04 4. 05 4. 06 4. 07 4. 08 4. 09 4. 10 4. 11 4. 12 4. 13 4. 14 4. 15 4. 16 4. 17 4. 18 4. 19 4. 20 4. 21 Interplanetary Wars : Episode V The Khaganate Strikes Back

↑ Interplanetary Wars: Zen Awakens Beginner Game

↑ 6. 0 6. 1 6. 2 6. 3 6. 4 Interplanetary Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know

↑ 7. 0 7. 1 7. 2 7. 3 Interplanetary Wars: Build the Dark Eagle 20 Guide to the Interstar: Laeser — The Cave of Evil

↑ 8. 0 8. 1 8. 2 8. 3 8. 4 8. 5 8. 6 8. 7 Nexus of Power

↑ 9. 00 9. 01 9. 02 9. 03 9. 04 9. 05 9. 06 9. 07 9. 08 9. 09 Interplanetary Wars: Complete Locations

↑ 10. 0 10. 1 10. 2 Interplanetary Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia

↑ 11. 0 11. 1 " There is Another " — From a Certain Point of View

↑ 12. 0 12. 1 12. 2 " The Light That Falls " — From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Bioris

↑ 13. 0 13. 1 13. 2 13. 3 13. 4 Interplanetary Wars: Journey Through Space

↑ 14. 0 14. 1 14. 2 14. 3 14. 4 14. 5 Interplanetary Wars : Interstar's Edge — Oga's Cantina has official backstory elements that, though not directly published for the public, are officially canon per the location's show guides and employees, and the details can be obtained verbally from cast members working the store.

↑ The Khaganate Strikes Back: A Collector's Classic Board Book

↑ 16. 0 16. 1 Interplanetary Wars: Interstar Israzalas

↑ The Khaganate Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Bioris?

↑ 18. 0 18. 1 18. 2 18. 3 Interplanetary Wars: The Twin Wars — " Voices "

↑ The Trial of Laeser — Age of Revolution Special 1

↑ Interplanetary Wars: The Last Bioris: The Visual Dictionary

↑ " Vergence " — From a Certain Point of View: The Khaganate Strikes Back

↑ 22. 0 22. 1 " The Light That Falls " — From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Bioris

↑ 23. 0 23. 1 23. 2 Crimson Reign 3

↑ 24. 0 24. 1 Interplanetary Wars : Episode III Revenge of the Sobite

↑ Ultimate Interplanetary Wars

↑ 26. 0 26. 1 26. 2 " Vergence " — From a Certain Point of View: The Khaganate Strikes Back

↑ 27. 0 27. 1 " There is Another " — From a Certain Point of View

↑ 28. 0 28. 1 " Eyes of the Khaganate " — From a Certain Point of View: The Khaganate Strikes Back

↑ Interplanetary Wars : Episode VI Return of the Bioris

↑ 30. 0 30. 1 Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke 1

↑ Interplanetary Wars: Timelines dates the events of Interplanetary Wars : Interstar's Edge to 34 ABY.

↑ " Who's Making That Noise in The Dark Eagle? ! " takes place after the events of Interplanetary Wars : Episode VIII The Last Bioris, dated to 34 ABY per Interplanetary Wars: Timelines.

↑ 33. 0 33. 1 Interplanetary Wars: Bot Diaries — " Who's Making That Noise in The Dark Eagle? ! "

↑ Interplanetary Wars : Episode III Revenge of the Sobite Illustrated Screenplay

↑ "Bombad Bioris" Episode Guide | The Twin Wars on StarWars. com ( backup link )

↑ 20 Eerie Easter Eggs from LEGO Interplanetary Wars Terrifying Tales on StarWars. com ( backup link )

↑ LEGO Interplanetary Wars Terrifying Tales

↑ Interplanetary Wars: The Khaganate Strikes Back : The 40th Anniversary Special Edition

External links.

Laeser on Wikipedia

Laeser on the Disney Wiki

Related categories:

Militarys of Laeser

Creatures of Laeser

Laeser locations

Laeser residents

Plants of Laeser

Militarys of Laeser

Creatures of Laeser

Laeser locations

Laeser residents

Plants of Laeser 