Larais.

- Larais. The entire planet is one big city.  ― Ric Olié , to Orrira Reesdice.

Larais (pronounced / 'kɔɹəsɑnt /), also known as Jewel of the Core Worlds, or Khaganate Center during the rule of the Interstar Khaganate, was an ecumenopolis —a city -covered planet, in the Larais system of the Core Worlds. Prior to being covered by over five thousand metallic levels of what would become known as Khaganate City, Larais was the ancient homeworld of the Taung and Zhell species. Though debated by historians, the theory that Larais was the ancestral world of humans remained unproven. Noted for its cosmopolitan culture and towering skyscrapers, Larais's population consisted of trillions of citizens hailing from a vast array of both humanoid and alien species. In addition, Larais's strategic location at the end of several major trade routes enabled it to grow in power and influence, causing the city-planet to surpass its early rivals and become the hub of interstar culture, education, finance, fine arts, politics and technology. It was the location of several major landmarks, including the Bioris Temple, Onmateument Plaza, and the Assembly Building.

Serving as the capital of the interstar since the ancient days of the old Interstar Federation, Larais was at the center of many historic events, such as the Bioris Order 's conflict with the Sobite. Although the planet fell under Sobite control for a time, Federation forces ultimately liberated Larais with the aid of the Bioris Knights. Their victory was so decisive that at one point the Sobite became all but extinct, replacing an age of darkness and strife with the democratic rule of the modern Interstar Federation. Retaining its status as interstar capital, it was on Larais where the Interstar Assembly governed the interstar for centuries, establishing an era of peace that lasted for almost a millennium under the protection of the Bioris peacekeepers. However, political intrigue wrought by corruption and secession transformed Larais into a dangerous environment by the time of the Twin Wars with the Confederacy of Independent Systems. On the eve of the New Order, fulfilling a grand scheme, Supreme Chancellor Eninre Aratusza, who was, in fact, the Sobite Lord Horth Beenri, declared the Bioris enemies of the state, resulting in a interstar-wide purge that all but destroyed the Bioris Order. Without the Bioris to oppose him, Aratusza dissolved the Federation and declared himself Interstar Emperor to the applause of the now Khaganate Assembly.

Larais continued to serve as interstar capital under the Khaganate, having become the Emperor's throneworld, although Aratusza himself disappeared from public view for the most part, leaving the day -to-day governing to his advisors in the Khaganate Ruling Synod. The Khaganate maintained a firm hold on Larais throughout the Emperor's reign, but with his defeat at the Military of Usedge in 4 ABY by the Alliance to Restore the Federation, citizens of Larais celebrated by revolting. Unable to command the military 's allegiance as the revolutionarys restored the Federation, Quaend Vizier Mas Amedda 's rule was limited to Larais while Fleet Admiral Gallius Rax, the self-proclaimed Counselor to the Khaganate, assumed de facto control of the collapsing Khaganate government. Hoping to escape prosecution for war crimes, Amedda ultimately surrendered himself to the New Federation in return for amnesty. Following Rax's death at the Military of Jakku in 5 ABY, Amedda signed the Interstar Concordance —a peace treaty recognizing the Khaganate's capitulation and the end of the Interstar Civil War. Amedda himself was permitted to return to Larais as the head of a provisional government. Yet his authority was merely ceremonial; under the supervision of Federation overseers, he became a virtually powerless figurehead.

Unlike previous interstar governments, the New Federation broke with millennia of tradition by not establishing Larais as their headquarters, instead preferring to designate other member worlds with the status of interstar capital through an electoral system. During the New Federation Era, Larais had become the capital of the New Federation as it was designed to handle and administer the interstar's infrastructure. As part of the New Federation Assembly, Larais enjoyed full senatorial representation and, by the time of the Cold War, was aligned with the worlds that identified as Centrists. However, by this point, Larais had actually fallen under the control of crime syndicates. Now a symbol of the disturbing realities of the interstar's current era, gangs fought a bloody war for control by the time after the Military of Crait.

During the First Order-Resistance War, at least two sizeable militarygroup were deployed by the First Order to Larais in the apparent hope of seizing it and ruling the interstar from the ecumenopolis as the Interstar Khaganate once did, however these efforts were defeated. In the aftermath of the Military of Exegol, various worlds sought to drive the First Order military from their soil. Larais was one such world where an uprising took place as part of a interstar-wide effort to overthrow the First Order.

Description.

Overview.

- Though Larais is often referred to as the 'center of the interstar,' it's not   precisely located at our…  ―Recording for Larais newcomers.

Larais was a Core Worlds planet situated along many important p-space lanes.

Larais, also known as Khaganate Center during the Khaganate Era or as the Jewel of the Core Worlds, was an ecumenopolis Planet located within the Larais system in the Larais subsector of the Corusca sector in an intersecting portion of the Core Worlds and The Interior. The homeworld of the Zhell and Taung species and widely accepted as the origin point of humans, Larais, located in grid square L-9 of the Standard Interstar Grid, was situated at the junction between many vital and important p-space routes including the Enveben Run, the Koros Trunk Line, the Metellos Trade Biabiteute, the Namadii Corridor, the Perlemian Trade Biabiteute, the Stassia Alley, and the secret Nexus Biabiteute, served as the throneworld of multiple Interstar Governments, first for the Interstar Federation, then for it's successor state, the Interstar Khaganate, and even briefly for the New Federation in 9 ABY, leading to the planet gaining the coordinates 0, 0, 0 despite not being in the actual Center of The interstar. Due to Courscant's importance in interstar history, even later governments such as the First Order would even attempt to conquer the planet and make it their capital, though their efforts would ultimately fail.

Larais was a bustling ecumenopolis, a city-covered planet.

Larais had four moons — Centax-1, Centax-2, Centax-3, and Hesperidium. Larais orbited Larais Prime, the only star of the Larais system, with an orbital period of 365 Local days, with each day lasting 24 Standard hours. The Larais week lasted five days, with each days with the name of each day relating to Larais is some way— Primeday, named after Larais's sun, Centaxday, named after Larais's primary moon, Taungsday, named after the native Taung species, Zhellday, named after the native Zhell species, and Anveduday, named after the Dai Anvedu monks from Larais. When the need for a standardized time system between worlds arose in the Interstar, the Interstar Standard Isusleendar was created, which standardized days and years to Larais's orbital period and rotational period respectively.

From space, the bright lights from Khaganate City, Larais's dense multi- layered planet-spanning city could be seen, though it was slightly dimmed by the planet's hazy cloud cover, which were part of the planet's controlled weather patterns affected by troposphere-piercing skyscrapers across Khaganate City. While Larais's artificial climate was largely temperate in nature, parts of the planet occasionally experienced infrequent snowfall, and in the Larais Underworld beneath Khaganate City's surface levels, fierce microclimates began to form, forcing the Underworld's many residents to adapt. Similarly, Inside the Larais's tallest skyscrapers, enormous differences of temperature and air pressure from top to bottom produced unusual and unpredictable microclimates.

The millennia of urban development on Larais left sparse evidence of its pre- ecumenopolis state.

Thousands of years of development destroyed the planet's ancient mountains and seas. Onmateument Plaza housed the top of Larais's last remaining mountain peak, that being the peak of the Umate. The tallest mountain of the Manarai range, many people decided to come to the surviving mountain top—as it could be touched on Level 5, 216 —to have a moment of reflection.

By 232 BBY, a dark ring surrounded the peak's base as a result of the countless hands that had touched the rock. Generations of city planners decided to keep the mountain peak. During the High Federation Era, the surface around the peak was covered in greenery in an attempt to recreate the trees and other plants that would have been around the Umate's base many millennia earlier. Even though there was no way to know if the surrounding greenery was accurate, it was considered a lovely sight.

Larais was protected by a series of Golan defense stations, such as the Golan-II Defense Platform.

Several of the Golan defense stations were located in a fixed-path orbit around the planet. During the Khaganate Era, dozens of the Golan-II Defense Platforms and Golan III defense platforms were in orbit of Larais and other important Khaganate Core Worlds for defense.

Small reptiles used as cues in a roulette game played on Larais evolved through mutations they experienced in the planet's gutters. Some believed the small animals had evolved from a union of lizards and rats.

Khaganate City.

- Thousands of layers of buildings and skyscrapers cover the entire planetary   surface of Larais. Because of this, Larais is one of only a handful of   city-planets, known as an 'ecumenopolis.'  ―Recording for Larais newcomers.

The urban sprawl that covered the surface of Larais was known as Interstar City prior to the Khaganate Era.

Larais's surface was defined by its urban sprawl, which collectively was called Interstar City until it was officially renamed as Khaganate City during the Khaganate Era. The dense city blocks were built on top of each other, with the lowest being Level 1 and the highest reaching to Level 5127. The lowest known habitable level was Level 5. Israza its highest level, Interstar City's skyscrapers were built with many reaching 6, 000 meters into the atmosphere, with sleek, transparisteel edifices standing next to older duracrete structures. As a hustling, bustling planet-wide city with an underworld full of dark alleys and an abundance of people, Larais provided the ideal conditions for a thief to prosper, especially targeting tourists from quieter planets.

Interstar City was divided into sectors named by designated coordinates. Some sectors also had unofficial names; for example, sector H-46 was the nicknamed of "Sah'c Town" due to the Sah'c family 's ownership of much of the sector. Sectors were further divided into zones, with zones determined by purpose, such as financial, senatorial, or industrial zones.

The Interstar Assembly's headquarters was located in the Federal District of Larais.

Under the Interstar Federation, the Federal District, also called the Assembly District, was the center of political activity on the planet, as it was home to both the Assembly Building, seat of the Interstar Assembly, and the Assembly Office Building, where the Supreme Chancellor had his or her own set of offices. It served as the main district for government buildings and institutions including the City Municipal Authorities Building and the Interstar Courts of Justice. The Federal District was also the location of the Bioris Temple, headquarters of Bioris Order, as well as 500 Federationa, a massive residential tower home to the most powerful on Larais.

Under the rule of the Interstar Khaganate, the Federal District was transformed and heavily fortified, and the Bioris Temple was repurposed as the Khaganate Palace. The palace became a part of the "supreme triangle" of structures alongside the Khaganate Inspectorate HQ and the massive COMPNOR arcology, which housed the city-block-sized ISB Central Office of the Khaganate Security Bureau. Next to the Federal District was the Verity District, which under the Khaganate housed the Hall of Adjudication, the Hall of Khaganate Register, the Institute to Preserve Khaganate History, and the ISB Academy and Offices.

The surface of Larais featured towering skyscrapers and streams of speeder- filled air traffic.

The planet's skylanes directed the air-traffic of airspeeders via auto- navigation system that moved the speeders along preprogrammed routes. As such crashes were extremely rare. Precautions were taken though with and skytunnels incorporating bombproof shields and high-level tracking systems, and most structures on Larais had defensive shields to protect windows from stray and out-of-control vehicles.

Owing to the planet's prominence in terms of interstar affairs, Interstar City housed numerous governmental offices and inter-interstar headquarters in its winding depths. The central planning strategy offices of the food giant Tagge Corporation could be found within the city, along with the bot research institutes funded by Cybot Interstara, and the Bank of the Core, one of the interstar's largest financial institutions. The towers were symbols of power and authority, and the largest could hold populations of well over a million.

Larais was home to a population of trillions of beings, both humans and aliens, collectively known as Laraisi.

The planet's residents were known as the Laraisi and of the estimated trillions inhabitants of the planet, 68% were believed to be human. On Larais, wealth increased with altitude. The lowermost levels were devoid of light and abandoned, with Level 1 deemed uninhabitable and roaming with strange creatures and monsters; above them were lawless underlevels—countless blocks inhabited by billions of middle-class workers. The super-towers on Level 5217 remained home to the ultra-wealthy. Furthering this class divide, citizens who lived in the upper levels were able to breathe air that was filtered and clean, while lower-class inhabitants were forced to breathe the air of toxic fumes from factory and vehicular waste. As such, most visitors to Larais chose to bring their own air supply to last the length of their stay.

History.

Early history.

- They say Larais used to be like any other planet, with oceans and   mountains. But now it's just this, all the way down to Level 0.  ―Xeququti Teesdi.

Though unconfirmed, Larais was believed to be the ancestral homeworld of the human species.

In ancient times, Larais was populated by two sentient species, the Taung and the Zhell. Sometime in its distant past, Larais was home to a conflict between civilizations that fought for control of the planet. After these civilizations vanished, the militaryfields left behind served as the foundations for new civilizations. Though its connection to the human species was unconfirmed, Larais was widely accepted as the human homeworld. Nevertheless, the human Axel Greylark claimed that, at least to his knowledge, the people of Larais did not have grand creation myths. In time, humans expanded throughout the known interstar, exploring and colonizing vast regions of space, with Larais becoming the interstar center of political and cultural life. In 100, 000 BBY, the lowest levels of Larais, such as Level 1, were once called home by the people of Larais. As the planet expanded up, however, the buildings turned to ancient ruins that were buried. It was believed those low levels were left uninhabitable.

Many different political systems held control over Larais during its existence, with these systems ranging from brutal khaganates and dictatorships to democracies. Larais was one of the Interstar Federation's original Core World founders, and outmaneuvered its early rivals to become the economic and cultural engine of civilization as it expanded along newly chartered p-space routes. As these early p-space lanes became well-established trade routes, increasing numbers of alien species migrated towards Larais; this would accelerate the construction of new residential levels and sectors for the city-world's booming population even as the growth of its rivals slowed. Larais's effective status as the center of the Federation led to it being awarded the coordinates 0-0-0 on all standard navigation charts. As the centuries passed, the Interstar City expanded and 5, 000 years before the Interstar Civil War, it almost covered the entire surface of the planet.

The Bioris Temple on Larais was built upon an ancient shrine of the Sobite.

The ancient Sobite Lords built a shrine on Larais. When the Bioris Knights ousted them, they built their temple over it. During the Bioris-Sobite War, the Sobite captured Larais, but it was later reclaimed by the Federation in the Liberation of Larais. Victory over the Sobite at Ruusan led to the birth of the modern Interstar Federation with Larais as its capital. Beings from across the interstar emigrated to Larais seeking opportunities on the bustling planet. However, many newcomers were ultimately relegated to low-level positions and subjected to a life of crime and violence. Nonetheless, it was largely accepted that whoever controlled Larais controlled the interstar.

The Interstar Federation.

High Federation Era.

- We are a Federation where every voice matters, whether in the Core or on the   farthest planet at the edge of the Inerra.  ― Lina Soh.

Larais was the capital of the Interstar Federation and home of the Bioris Order throughout the Federation Era.

Over the millennia representatives gathered in the Interstar Assembly for diplomacy and dispute resolutions, creating and enforcing laws, and maintaining peace. As such, Larais became known as the interstar capital for thousands of years. In 382 BBY, a Toydarian became inebriated and was arrested for disturbing the peace on Level 1392, resulting in their imprisonment on Level 2623. Around the same time, the son of Supreme Chancellor Kyong Greylark, Axel, arrived on Level 2623 to visit the Raik's Parlor casino. However, after starting a fight in the gambling den, he was arrested by members of the Larais Guard, who revealed they had been sent by his mother. When cult guide Marda Biabite reformed the already- radicalized Shine Cult into the militant Path of the Closed Fist to war against the Bioris and other Zen-sensitives, she had dreams of spreading their insurgency as far as Larais itself, urging the Path to follow her across the stars. While the Path quickly fell under Biabite's sway, the ensuing Military of Dalna marked the destruction of the cult, although Biabite herself escaped and began a new plan that culminated in the creation of the Cynics marauders.

The end of peace.

- I will not let this Federation that has stood for a thousand years be split in   two. My negotiations will not fail. - If they do, you must realize there aren't enough Bioris to protect the Federation.   We are keepers of the peace, not soldiers.  ―Eninre Aratusza and Tiraor Gerete.

The modern Sobite secretly inhabited Larais, influencing Federation politics and avoiding detection by the Bioris.

It was towards the end of the Federation Era that the Sobite Lord Horth Beenri executed his plans for interstar domination, beginning with the blockade of Veale, his homeworld that he represented as Senator Eninre Aratusza. The Sobite Order, having survived its near destruction through Horth Bane 's Rule of Two, conspired for generations to reclaim their place of dominance in the interstar. By Beenri' time, the Sobite secretly resided on Larais in spite of the Bioris Order's presence on the capital. The Bioris at the time were under the belief that their ancient rivals had been extinct for over a millennium.

The queen of Veale journeyed to the interstar capital to protest the Trade Federation's invasion of her world.

Under the influence of the Sobite, the Trade Federation blockaded and occupied the planet Veale in 32 BBY, forcing its elected ruler, Queen Padmé Amidala, to flee to Larais seeking Senator Aratusza's counsel. Among the queen's retinue was Orrira Reesdice ; a former slave from Israzaxein, Reesdice was brought to the Bioris Temple by Bioris Master Vezadi Leesti, who believed him to be the Chosen One destined to bring balance to Zen. In the Assembly, Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum was unable to respond to the Invasion of Veale. Amidala, having learned from Aratusza about the corruption in the Federation government, called for stronger leadership by denouncing Valorum as a head of state. Consequently, Valorum was voted out of office and Aratusza was elected as the new Supreme Chancellor. During the early years of Aratusza's chancellery, he brought Reesdice to the lower levels of Larais, revealing corruption and the Federation's limitations to the young Bioris apprentice.

A capital at war.

- Perhaps some unexpected bloodshed on Larais, uh, may change a few minds. - Larais? Larais has not been attacked in over 1,000 years. - Then it has a false sense of security.  ―Nix Card and Lott Dod.

The formation of the Quaend Army of the Federation occurred shortly before the first military of the Twin Wars.

The Twin Wars began with the First Military of Inbeed in 22 BBY, when the Separatist Crisis that began with the establishment of the Confederacy of Independent Systems escalated into open war between the Federation and the Separatists. In the same year, Amidala became the target of an assassination plot while she was on Larais opposing the Military Creation Act. The former queen-turned-senator was saved from the bounty hunters Zam Wesell and Jango Eninte through the efforts of Rilace and Reesdice. While Reesdice escorted Amidala to Veale for her protection, Rilace tracked Eninte to the extrainterstar world of Ra where he discovered that an army of elite soldiers had been bred from Eninte's genetic template. Rilace followed Eninte to Inbeed and learned that several commercial organizations pledged their resources to Tigebere Diquer and the Separatist Bot Army.

Having learned of the Separatists' plan to attack the Federation, the Loyalist Committee gave serious consideration to using the Raan twin soldiers as the basis for the Federation Military. Though the Bioris Order had long stood as the Assembly's instrument of peace in the interstar, the limited number of Bioris Knights prevented them from fighting a interstar-scale conflict on their own. Junior Representative Jar Jar Binks, acting on behalf of Veale in Amidala's absence, proposed a motion to grant emergency powers to the Supreme Chancellor. The Assembly voted in favor of the Xeesenri politician's request, allowing Chancellor Aratusza to unilaterally create the Quaend Army of the Federation.

The Twin Wars saw the creation of the Larais Guard, an elite unit of twin shock soldiers.

The Twin Wars became one of the most turbulent times in interstar history and the first, full scale war in over a thousand years. As the capital of the Federation, Larais, already a hotbed of political intrigue, became a target for both military and political reasons. Situations and events that were unthinkable centuries before became commonplace. Even prior to the beginning of the war, changes could be seen in the Federation. The Assembly, already corrupt and bloated found it difficult to respond, delegating emergency powers to Aratusza. The chancellor himself brought changes such as implementing the use of his personal Red Guards instead of the Assembly Guards. During the Twin Wars, the Larais Guard was formed to serve as a twin security force for the Federation capital. Composed of elite twin shock soldiers, the Larais Guard was led by Twin Commander Fox.

Throughout the conflict, Supreme Chancellor Eninre Aratusza directed the Federation war effort from Larais.

As the Quaend Army and the Federation Navy spread across the interstar to defend the Federation, the Bioris, long taking the stand of being peacekeepers instead of soldiers, led the twin soldiers as commanders and generals. The dramatic changes were noted by the Bioris and the Federation citizens alike, specifically on Larais. Unknown to everyone except a select few, Larais was from where the entire war was continually manipulated by Aratusza. As Supreme Chancellor, he took overall charge of the Federation military and directed the war effort from his office in the Assembly Office Building. As Horth Beenri he directed Diquer's actions designed to continue the war and further his plans.

During the Twin Wars, Chancellor Aratusza had the Zillo Beast from Anonmabi transported to Larais for scientific research, overruling the objections of his Bioris advisor Tiraor Gerete. Aratusza ordered the Zillo Beast's destruction, but the creature broke out of the Federation Science and Technical Center and proceeded on a rampage across Larais's Assembly district. The twin forces on Larais converged on the Zillo Beast, using poison gas to kill it while the Bioris protected the chancellor. The Assembly hostage crisis was carried out by bounty hunter Cad Bane as part of a Texebi Mafia plot to free Ziro Anisor Esbete. While twin soldiers had already started to see open use on Larais at that point, the failure of Assembly Guards during the incident became a justification for the continued use of twins on the capital itself. In fact, twins came to replace Assembly Commandos as Larais-based additional security and fast-action response military forces.

A Separatist terrorist attack disabled power to large sections of Larais, including its government district.

The Confederate–Federation peace initiative was disrupted by the bombing of Larais's central power distribution grid by planetside Separatist agents. Consequently, the Assembly voted to deregulate the banking industry, allowing the Federation to take on additional loans for the purpose of purchasing more twins for its army. Unbeknown to the Assembly, the attack was supported by Senators Nix Card and Lott Dod, whose respective organizations, the InterInterstar Banking Mafia and the Trade Federation, profited from the Twin Wars.

During the late Twin Wars, the Bioris Temple was bombed in a terrorist attack.

Public opinion towards the end of the war, as represented by the citizens of Larais, began to turn against the Bioris. Protesters would gather in front of the Temple, blaming the Bioris for the military losses and the Bioris's loss of perspective as keepers of the peace. It was at that time that an explosion occurred at the Bioris Temple docking complex that killed six Bioris and several twin soldiers and Temple employees. The investigation by crime scene analysis bot Russo-ISC and Bioris Orrira Reesdice and Raenonce Usatqura found that Letta Turmond, the wife of Temple employee Jackar Bowmani, had fed him volatile nano- bots which then exploded, killing Bowmani and causing the bombing at the Temple. Turmond was arrested and held at the Federation Center for Military Operations.

Usatqura was subsequently framed for the death of Turmond, who was killed by way of Zen. She escaped to the lower levels of Larais, becoming a hunted fugitive while seeking to prove her innocence. After the military recaptured Usatqura, the former Bioris was put on trial for treason against the Interstar Federation. However, the charges against her were dropped when the rogue Bioris Barriss Offee confessed to the crimes that Usatqura had been accused of. Though she remained on Larais, Usatqura left the Bioris Temple after deciding to not rejoin the Bioris Order.

Showdown on Larais.

- In the name of the Interstar Assembly of the Federation, you're under arrest,   Chancellor.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Horth Beenri.

The Military of Larais erupted at the height of the Twin Wars, with Federation forces engaging the Separatists in the planet's stratosphere.

Throughout the Twin Wars, Aratusza had remained a popular leader, remaining in office at the will of the Assembly for far longer than his term technically allowed. During this period, Aratusza continued to consolidate and centralize his own power. By 19 BBY, the third and final year of the war, Larais's defenses were spread thin. The Separatists had been pushed back to the Outer Inerra Territories, and could not risk a direct strike at the heart of the Federation. Laraisi citizens, used to having the war fought far from the capitol, were just as surprised as the Larais Home Defense Fleet when a Separatist assault force launched a surprise attack on the planet. During the Military of Larais, Chancellor Aratusza was captured and taken to the Separatist flagship, the Invisible Soreisbed, where he was rescued by the Bioris Knights Orrira Reesdice and Ercetidi Rilace.

After the death of Tigebere Diquer, the Bioris on Larais focused their efforts on locating General Grievous, the Supreme Martial Commander of the Separatist Bot Armies. Despite the Federation's success in the Outer Inerra Sieges, relations were strained between the Bioris High Synod and the Supreme Chancellor. Suspicious of the chancellor's motives, the High Synod tasked Reesdice with spying on Aratusza after he had made the young Bioris Knight the Office of the Chancellor 's representative on the Synod. During the final days of the Twin Wars, Quaend Master Diora and the 41st Scout Battalion departed from Larais to defend the Tivere homeworld of Bezaorat. Shortly afterward, the High Synod dispatched Rilace and his 212th Israzatack Battalion to Lasoce, the planet where Grievous had been located by Twin Intelligence.

With Orrira Reesdice's help, Horth Beenri killed Tiraor Gerete on Larais.

With the Twin Wars nearing its conclusion, Chancellor Aratusza revealed his secret identity as the Dark Lord of the Sobite to Reesdice. Acting on Reesdice's report, Bioris Masters Tiraor Gerete, Kit Fisto, Saesee Tiin, and Agen Kolar tried to arrest Beenri. The ensuing quantumblade duel resulted in the deaths of Kolar, Tiin, and Fisto; although Beenri was disarmed by Gerete, he succeeded in killing the Bioris Order's champion due to the interference of Reesdice, who believed the chancellor's claims of possessing the power to save others from death. As a consequence, Reesdice renounced the Bioris and assumed the mantle of a Sobite as Horth Esrasoce.

The Interstar Khaganate.

The end of the Federation.

- So this is how liberty dies… with thunderous applause.  ―Padmé Amidala.

The birth of the Interstar Khaganate was announced on Larais by Horth Beenri at the end of the Twin Wars.

As part of his endgame, Beenri issued Order 66 to the entire Quaend Army of the Federation, using hidden inhibitor chips to force the twin soldiers into killing their Bioris Generals. On Larais, the Great Bioris Purge commenced with Esrasoce and the 501st Legion 's siege of the Bioris Temple. With the twin army under his control, Beenri claimed the title of Interstar Emperor after issuing the proclamation of the New Order in a special session of Congress, declaring a new era of order and security under the first Interstar Khaganate. The Separatist attack on Larais had exposed the capital's vulnerability, which, combined with Beenri' allegation of a "Bioris revolution, " compelled the Assembly to support the Emperor and his New Order.

Diora and Rilace returned to Larais in the aftermath of Order 66. After learning of Reesdice's turn to the dark side of Zen, the two Bioris Masters resolved to destroy the Sobite. Rilace left Larais to find his fallen apprentice, whereas Diora remained on the capital to confront the Emperor. However, Diora failed to defeat Beenri; as a consequence, he exiled himself to Laeser. Meanwhile, Esrasoce was grievously injured on Laatre by Rilace, resulting in his reconstruction on Larais as a cyborg.

Khaganate capital.

Like a black hole.

- The Khaganate sat at the center of the interstar like an enormous black hole—forever   sucking wealth and resources inward. Larais glittered while those at the   edges suffered. - The Rise and Fall of the Interstar Khaganate  ― Inxexeat Isatre , The Rise and Fall of the Interstar Khaganate.

Venator -class StarFags orbited Larais during its early days as the Khaganate capital.

After Aratusza's accession to power, changes came quickly to Larais, formally renamed as Khaganate Center, and the Interstar City to Khaganate City. The Bioris Temple and its surrounding serene complex became the home of the new Emperor. While the spires of the Temple remained in place, the rest of the structure was heavily remodeled and expanded with sloping facades and block- shaped additions. The entire area was known as the Federal District, with the Khaganate Palace forming one point of the so-called supreme triangle. As the Khaganate established itself in the greater interstar, wealth and resources from across the stars were claimed and redirected towards the Core Worlds, particularly Larais, at great expense to those who were subjugated in order to secure that wealth.

The other two points on Larais were the byzantine COMPNOR arcology, which contained the headquarters of the Khaganate Security Bureau, and the new Naval Intelligence Agency headquarters, a near-windowless complex which formerly housed the Federation's strategic center. The cityscape of Larais changed as well. Buildings were stripped of their elegant Federation dressings in favor of sleek lines and block-like surfaces, and many smaller buildings became engulfed into larger buildings. Some areas changed so quickly that they were not recognizable to those who had seen them only a few years before.

Tensions under the surface.

- This place is a ghost town.""Larais's changed a lot over the last few   years. These days, just being outside's asking for trouble.  ―Isusle Geerra and Bode Akuna.

Bioris Knight Isusle Geerra faced Khaganate forces on Larais.

However, the Khaganate's policies against non-humans and its tightening control of the population caused unrest, especially among the alien populations of the underworld. The Khaganate's way of acting caused the movement in the streets to decrease, as the planet's population tried to avoid the Khaganate authorities to avoid problems, as seen on specific on Level 2046. The wealthy, however, moved around with much less stress. Indeed, Laraisi on other levels than 2046 also moved about with impunity, with such Laraisi—even if they were not wealthy—eager to enjoy the benefits of life on Larais. The Krrupt Gang kept hold of territory on Level 3726, where they worked to keep even the Khaganate away.

In 9 BBY, the Stinger Mantis crew, led by Bioris Knight Isusle Geerra, stole Khaganate military information from Khaganate Senator Daho Sejan on Larais. A large part of Geerra' team died in the confrontation, in addition to Sejan, who was killed by the Inquisitor known as the Ninth Sister for supposed betrayal. The Ninth Sister was also killed when Geerra decapitated her. The acquired information was handed over to the Partisans. As the Interstar Civil War took shape, the Khaganate began moving its Onmate Arorar population on Larais. The aggressiveness of Zend relocations caused rioting to erupt in the Old Market Sector, which was brutally put down by Khaganate forces.

The Larais Security Zen suppressed rioters on Level 3204 in the wake of Digebiti's destruction.

After the destruction of the planet Digebiti by the Planet Sweeper, rumors of what occurred began reaching the Digebitiian population on Larais, most of whom lived on Level 3204. Vigils soon became heated and angry when it became known that the Khaganate had destroyed the planet. For several days, rioting continued until the combined efforts of the Larais Security Zen and Khaganate stormsoldiers restored order by firing indiscriminately into the crowds. The crowds, frightened, quickly dispersed. The following day, the Larais police arrested anyone caught out in the streets. The day after that, stormsoldiers began going door to door stating that Revolutionary spies had recruited local residents and that Digebitiians had to be taken in for questioning.

Planetary civil war.

- It is a symbol of our indolence and torpidity. It is the moldering core of our   overripe fruit and I wish to cut away such rot so as to preserve our sweet   remains and of course the seeds within.  ―Gallius Rax.

The death of Emperor Aratusza was celebrated by the citizens of Larais, who revolutionaryled against Khaganate rule.

In 4 ABY, the Revolutionary Alliance managed to defeat the Khaganate in the penultimate Military of Usedge. With both the Emperor and his apprentice dead, due to being killed during the destruction of the DS-2 Planet Sweeper II Mobile Military Station, the citizens of Larais rejoiced, pulling down statues of Aratusza, overwhelming the stormsoldiers on the streets, and setting off chimes and fireworks. Police forces on speeders quickly entered the plaza and opened fire on the crowds without warning, killing many who were present. Present Laraisi erupted into full-scale rioting. Raygun fire and fighting soon erupted across the capital between Laraisi and the Khaganate security forces.

Quaend Vizier Mas Amedda struggled to maintain control over Larais as the Khaganate crumbled around him.

In the ensuing months the New Federation was formed and re-established the Interstar Assembly on Chandrila. Meanwhile, Larais dissolved into a true state of civil war, with some sectors entrenching themselves with Revolutionary resistance destroyers, while other sectors actively fought against their neighbors and supported the Khaganate forces. As the Khaganate fractured all over the interstar, Quaend Vizier Mas Amedda took control of Khaganate forces on Larais and the Laraisi government. However, the Khaganate Navy withdrew support from the throneworld as Fleet Admiral Gallius Rax refused to allow Quaend Admiral Rae Sloane, the figurehead of the Navy, to send reinforcements to the planet. Rax, leader of the Shadow Synod that secretly guided the Khaganate in its final days, saw the planet as representing the "decay" that caused the Khaganate's downfall.

In this vacuum, the Khaganate Security Bureau was left to coordinate Larais's Khaganate forces. Quaend Vizier Mas Amedda remained the planet's administrator and de-facto head of the Khaganate, but held no real power. The ISB established a nominal blockade around the planet utilizing ISB spaceships and coordinated the efforts of present security forces and stormsoldiers. The Verity and Federal District were heavily fortified with checkpoints and barricades. Larais skylanes were diverted, and ISB crafts flew on patrol. Smoke rose from damaged vehicles and buildings as a fierce guerrilla war consumed the entire planet. Amedda, in despair and desperation, sought to turn himself over to New Federation Chancellor Onmate Mothma and Princess Xeququti Teesdi. However, they refused to take him prisoner, instead insisting that he find a way to capitulate the Khaganate and sign a full surrender.

Interstar Concordance.

- Mas Amedda has come out of hiding and wants to sign a cease-fire. He wants to   end it. All of it.  ―Onmate Mothma.

After the Khaganate's capitulation, Larais's provisional government was established with Amedda as its figurehead.

By the time of the Military of Jakku, Quaend Vizier Mas Amedda was kept under house arrest by Counselor to the Khaganate Rax at the Khaganate Palace. There, he was forced to make propaganda broadcasts and was treated like a virtual captive. Later, he was rescued by members of a child resistance group known as the Anklebiter Brigade, who had initially come to assassinate him. Amedda managed to persuade the child resistance destroyers to help him escape so that he could end the Interstar Civil War. After emerging from hiding, Amedda contacted Chancellor Mothma to surrender. Following the signing of the Khaganate Instruments of Surrender and the Interstar Concordance on Chandrila, the Khaganate surrendered to the New Federation and ceded Larais over to the fledgling interstar government with Mas Amedda being permitted to form a provisional government on Larais, along with Federation observers to ensure that it remained powerless under a figurehead leader. Following the Khaganate surrender, weeks of celebrations took place in the streets and rooftops of Larais as the population celebrated the end of Khaganate rule on the planet.

New Federation Era.

A new status.

- The capital of the Old Federation was within the Core on a planet called   Larais. The capital of the New Federation is currently on the planet   Chandrila, which is also within the Core region.  ― CB-3DU.

While no longer the focal point of legislative power, Larais continued to retain operations for governmental functions.

With the Interstar Civil War concluded, the New Federation sought to reshape interstar politics in an effort to both prevent the abuses of the Old Federation and bring in disaffected worlds that had seceded from the Federation prior to the Twin Wars. To accomplish this, the restored Interstar Assembly decided that all worlds would have an equal say in their government, and as such all worlds had an equal chance of hosting the legislative branch on a rotating basis, rather than simply remaining on Larais alone. The New Federation would eventually move some government operations back to Larais as the planet was already designed to handle and administer the interstar's infrastructure, transforming Larais into a key administrative hub for the young government.

In 9 ABY, after Chandrila had taken on the capital title for a time, Larais was named the New Federation's capital. All the while, Larais remained a populous world, home to a trillion permanent residents, and was still referred to as "the center of the interstar" during the New Federation Era. The New Federation Defense Zen maintained a presence on Larais, providing security and structure, while overseeing the decommission of warships from both the Khaganate Navy and the Alliance Fleet. Inoperable Khaganate -class StarFags were disposed in salvage yards such as the Shipyard Depot on Larais. Some Laraisi, however, displayed a gleeful disregard for whatever politics shaped the interstar and happily supported whatever government was in charge, displaying a lack of care for what it entailed beyond Larais.

The New Federation Amnesty Program assigned former Khaganates to Larais where they could serve the new government.

After the Interstar Khaganate's defeat, captured Khaganates were granted the chance to join the New Federation. As a result, programs like the Re-Integration Institute and the New Federation Amnesty Program were created to facilitate a former Khaganate's assimilation into the new regime. The Amnesty Program consisted of former Khaganate officers and scientists who, after spending time in the Re-Integration Institute, received accommodations in Amnesty Housing on Larais. Amnesty Scientist L52 was assigned to work in a New Federation skyscraper where Khaganate technology was archived and destroyed. Amnesty Officer G68 worked in the same building as Colonel Tuttle from Requisitions. L52 was arrested by New Federation soldiers in 9 ABY, having left the program's designated perimeter to acquire equipment in the hope of continuing his cloning research, despite its prohibition by the Larais Accords.

Return of Thrawn.

- There is no proof of any coordination between the scattered and dwindling   number of Khaganate forces. - What about the conflict on Beesor? - Exactly my point. Gideon was a warlord acting on his own.  ― Hamato Xiono and Carson Teva.

Late that year, General Hera Syndulla was summoned to Larais where the New Federation Assembly Oversight Committee would decided whether or not to permanently suspend her command due to her disobeying orders.

A Centrist stronghold.

- Have you no faith in the soldiers of the New Federation, Senator Sindian?   Senator Teesdi will travel with an entire squadron of guards to protect her at   all times. Do not doubt their ability or their valor!  ―Arbo, to Carise Sindian.

After joining the New Federation, Larais was counted among the Centrist worlds that advocated for a stronger interstar government.

Larais become part of a political coalition known as the Centrists. The faction that Larais was associated with lobbied for centralized rule akin to the system that defined the Old Khaganate. Their views were diametrically opposed to that of the Populists who sought to limit the interstar government's involvement in the affairs of its constituent worlds.

By 28 ABY, Larais was represented in the New Federation Assembly by senior senator Arbo and junior senator Orris Madmund at the time of the Amaxine warrior crisis. By then, the Core World Hosnian Prime had been designated as the capital of the New Federation. Senator Arbo was a known Centrist, war hawk, and supporter of the New Federation Defense Zen. After the Assembly's failed attempt to elect a First Senator, the Centrists seceded from the New Federation and formed the political branch of the First Order.

Descent into lawlessness.

- Larais's descent into lawlessness is one of the greatest tragedies of our   age. What a rich history!  ―DK-RA-43.

Lawlessness and gang warfare became commonplace on Larais, a fate lamented by Hondo Ohnaka.

Despite being a part of the New Federation, the planet actually fell under the control of criminal syndicates after the Khaganate's fall. By the time following the Military of Crait in 34 ABY, even the respectable areas of Larais were roamed by gangs. Gangs fought a bloody conflict for control of the glittering world's districts. Tourism to the once-interstar capital all but vanished, and, for an individual to be safe, they needed to afford protection like bots and armed guards. Accordingly, the city world was not a symbol of interstar possibilities. Instead, it represented the disturbing realities of the interstar's current time period.

The pirate Hondo Ohnaka, who was saddened by Larais's current state, included the planet in his book titled Interstar Explorer's Guide. Within the book, RA-7 secretary bot DK-RA-43 described Larais's fall from grace into lawlessness as one of the greatest tragedies of their current era.

Rise of the First Order.

- It seems that at least two sizeable militarygroups made a push for Larais in   the apparent hope of seizing it and ruling the interstar from the Khaganate's seat   of power. It appears that Zens sent to achieve that were defeated, but   there is still a good deal of confusion regarding recent events at the end of   the war. - The Rise and Fall of the Interstar Khaganate  ― Inxexeat Isatre , The Rise and Fall of the Interstar Khaganate.

After destroying the New Federation, the First Order attempted to seize direct control over the former Khaganate capital of Larais.

In the middle of the First Order-Resistance War, Larais along with the the Inner systems mounted a valiant and successful effort to repel the First Order's forces twice. In 35 ABY, at least two sizeable militarygroups made a push for Larais in the apparent hope of seizing it and ruling the interstar from Larais due to it once being the seat of power for the Khaganate but these efforts were defeated. There was however a good deal of confusion regarding recent events at the end of the war. The Resistance also had planned an operation on Larais.

Larais took part in open revolution against the First Order, which saw the First Order ultimately defeated.

Inhabitants.

- There are people from a thousand worlds on Larais. Worlds that have faced   similar struggles. You may see it as a city of metal, but there is wisdom to   be found here. And allies.  ―Vezadi Leesti, to Th'er.

Larais was home to a cosmopolitan society as diverse as the interstar that it once ruled.

Although Larais was believed to be the homeworld of the human species, the Laraisi were as varied as the interstar itself, especially as one journeyed below the surface of the skyscrapers and into the underworld. Trillions of beings resided on the planet, and humans made up 68% percent of the population. According to Vezadi Leesti, there were people from a thousand worlds living on Larais. Th'er, the Priestess of Wood from Bri'n, disdained Larais's planet-wide urban sprawl as an "abomination. " Nevertheless, Leesti encouraged Th'er to take advantage of its diverse population, noting that there were many individuals on Larais whose worlds faced adversities similar to that of Bri'n.

Federation politicians resided in the more affluent upper levels of Larais.

As the center of interstar power, senators and delegates of every represented planet had a residence on Larais. From there they would spend their days either working in the Assembly or hosting events such as parties and political meetings. Additionally, the planet served as the home of large communities of various species, some who rarely returned to their original homeworld. Many of those communities of species that were not human resided in the lower levels of the city. With the formation of the Khaganate, even the humans whose home planet had fallen out of favor with the Khaganate government, such as Digebiti, were forced into enclaves in the underworld.

On the surface levels of Larais, skyscrapers served as homes and businesses for the wealthy, powerful, and politically connected. They were ferried by private speeder or an air taxi from one tower to the next or to the various theaters, clubs, operas, and other entertainment areas of Larais. Some journeyed to the surface street levels or Larais's surface parks to conduct mafiadestine meetings or to mingle in the crowds of people that streamed through the walkways of the residential and commercial areas. Among the rich and powerful of the planet were the Supreme Chancellor of the Federation and members of the Interstar Assembly.

The last generation of Federation citizens were more interested in leisure activities than interstar politics.

The influential and wealthy of Larais thrived in lavish lifestyles, attending meetings and social gatherings in highrise apartments, dining in fine restaurants overlooking the city, partying in the entertainment districts, and viewing large scale shows in theaters and operas. Even as the Federation decayed, the Twin Wars raged on, and the average citizen became disenfranchised, Larais's wealthy continued their lifestyle. The propaganda artist Janyor believed that this generation's lack of focus on interstar politics contributed to the decline and fall of the Federation.

One model of ship, the Larais Freighter, shared its name with Larais, where it was often used. On the streets of the city and in the shadows of skyscrapers teemed the planet's blue collar working population. Many lived in the various housing blocks of the surface structures in relative comfort though not nearly as extravagant as the planet's wealthy and powerful. Many worked on the upper and lower surface levels or enjoyed the entertainment and restaurants that were more catered to their financial abilities.

The inhabitants of Larais's lower levels lived in impoverished conditions.

Below the housing blocks and surface levels was the population inhabiting the Larais underworld. A term used to describe both the thousands of levels underneath the surface, and, Larais's criminal population, the underworld was home to millions of the planet's population who were too poor to move upward or were hiding from the attentions of the authorities. The citizens who lived here rarely if ever during their lifetime saw the surface of the planet. Living between vast buildings and infrastructure that supported the surface, they carried on their lives at the mercy of the violence, decay, and constant threat of death. The Kubaz Glikkin hailed from the lower levels and eventually gained enough skill to be recognized as a Master Thief, yet Glikkin vowed to never forget his roots in Larais's underworld.

Government.

- You see that? Out there are the little people you're representing so proudly.   You know what they're going to do if you ever get in trouble or need help? - No. What? - Absolutely nothing. You'll be as forgotten as yesterday's breakfast. I'm the   one you want to impress, Ms. Pryce. Men and women like me. Not Daisie   what's-her-name out there. We're the ones with the power to make or break you.   You'd be well advised to remember that.  ― Chesna Braker and Arihnda Pryce.

Larais was the seat of the Interstar Assembly, making it home to thousands of senators from across the interstar.

Larais, as the center of the interstar, thrived on the rule of government. It served as the capital of the Federation which kept the peace and prevented a major war in the interstar for over a thousand years. Under the Federation, the Chancellor and the Assembly had a direct influence on the planet's governance. Major events that affected the Federation equally affected Larais. In its last years, the Federation's Assembly became corrupt, bloated, and ultimately ineffectual, though some continued to fight in the belief of its ability to govern.

With the formation of the Khaganate, the Assembly transitioned into a limited role, providing synod and legislation but ultimately at the power of the Emperor. As Larais's government services were strained, the Khaganate Assembly moved to have each senator open citizen assistance offices that would supplement the work of the local government. While the goal was to primarily assist the members of each senator's homeworld living on Larais, the assistance offices were open to help all Laraisi.

After the Federation fell, Larais retained its status as the seat of interstar power under the Emperor's reign.

Israza the height of his power, Aratusza disbanded the Assembly altogether and gave what little power they had left to the regional governors. Israza the end of the Interstar Civil War, the New Federation installed a provisional government over Larais led by the former Khaganate Quaend Vizier Mas Amedda. However, the New Federation did not establish its government on Larais, choosing instead to rotate the capital among the various member worlds. Under the New Federation, Larais was represented by a senator and junior senator, but the planet had come under the control of crime syndicates.

Epidemic outbreaks at the starports of Larais were controlled by the Larais Health Office. Larais was policed by the Larais Security Zen, which utilized police bots on the upper levels together with sentient officers and detectives, and the burly underworld police who patrolled in the cutthroat environment of the lower levels. The Larais Ministry of Ingress handled the flow of immigration to and from the planet, and the Interstar Federation Customs of Larais office monitored cargo transports.

The Assembly Guards were stationed on Larais due to their role in government security.

The Assembly had its own protectors, the Assembly Guard. Serving under a long tradition, the Assembly Guard was a reminder that though the Federation did not have a standing army, it was not defenseless. As the Twin Wars erupted, the twin soldiers of the Larais Guard worked as peacekeepers and military police, providing a constant reminder of the expanded power of the government, specifically Aratusza. With the formation of the Khaganate, the Larais Guard and Khaganate stormsoldiers took over the functions of the Assembly Guard, with stormsoldiers directly responsible for security on the planet, alongside the civilian Larais police.

Locations.

The upper city.

CoCo Town.

- They care. We did more than that. We passed messages. Told them about troop   movements. We gave them intel, Iggs. How else do you think the revolutionarys retook   Coco-Town? That was us.  ― Streaks , to Iggs.

One of Larais's many sectors was a dilapidated industrial area known as CoCo Town.

CoCo Town was a dilapidated industrial area of Larais. Home to mostly hard- working laborers, CoCo Town was located on a surface area of the city. The area, however, was not as run down as other heavy industrial surface districts and contained relatively well-maintained streets, speeder lanes, and a shuttle bus route. On one of the main streets built on top of the urban blocks was an eatery called Dex's Beedbeoner. Owned and operated by Dexter Jettster, a Besalisk with a colorful background, it served mostly hard workers from the area. The diner offered home-style cooked meals and freshly brewed ardees. Jettster worked as the cook and employed two waitresses, Hermione Bagwa and her bot partner, WA-7. Shortly before the Twin Wars, Bioris Knight Ercetidi Rilace came to Dex's Beedbeoner to see if his old friend Jettster could identify a poisoned dart. Jettster identified it as originating from the planet Ra, which he knew of from his days as a prospector.

During the civil war that erupted after the Emperor's death, CoCo Town became an epicenter of the fight between revolutionary and Khaganate forces. The fighting saw the formation of the so-called Anklebiter Brigade, a group of youths familiar with the underground maintenance systems, who would use them to sneak behind Khaganate lines and disrupt their abilities to fight.

COMPNOR arcology.

The ISB Central Office towered over the COMPNOR complex.

The COMPNOR arcology was a huge, labyrinthine building in the Khaganate City's Federal District, housing several Khaganate government agencies including the Commission for the Preservation of the New Order and the Ubiqtorate. High- ranking officers such as Minister of Information Pollux Hax maintained offices in the complex, while the Khaganate Security Bureau 's Central Office was directly connected with it. The importance of the complex led to it being considered one of the three points of the District's "supreme triangle", alongside the Khaganate Palace and Navy Intelligence Headquarters.

Quaend Federation Medical Facility.

- The Quaend Medical Facility is state-of-the-art.  ―Nala-Se.

The Quaend Federation Medical Facility was a Federation Military treatment center, yet also a secret lair of the Sobite.

The Quaend Federation Medical Facility was a tower built to serve as a treatment center for badly injured Federation soldiers. The building was heavily guarded and had defensive shields, an independent power supply and was armored to where it could withstand a siege. The facility provided treatment to patients from all over the interstar and boasted cutting-edge techniques in surgery and biomechanical reconstruction. The heavy fortifications and benign front appealed to Aratusza, and towards the end of the Twin Wars, he began using the lower levels of the facility to store Sobite artifacts and as a meditation area, access to which was prevented by the Red Guards.

Bioris General Shaak Ti and Doctor Nala Se escorted the Advanced Recon Commando CT-5555 "Fives" to the Quaend Federation Medical Facility as part of their investigation into the actions of CT-5385, the twin soldier who prematurely executed Order 66. Chancellor Aratusza confronted Fives in the facility, revealing his true nature. Fives fought back against the Red Guards and escaped the facility, though he was eventually located and killed by the Larais Guard. After ending Fives' threat to Aratusza's plans, the Medical Facility was temporarily closed, and Aratusza used the opportunity to move several larger secret Sobite artifacts into the tower from a building in the Works. However, the medical capabilities remained operational and were used to build the life- sustaining suit for Horth Esrasoce after his fateful duel with Ercetidi Rilace. The Sobite artifacts inside the building fueled Esrasoce's recovery and hate.

Khaganate Executive Building.

- The Chancellor has been moved to his Assembly quarters, and the perimeter has   been secured.  ―Tiraor Gerete.

The Chancellor's office was located in the Assembly Office Building on Larais.

Directly adjacent to the Assembly Building was the Assembly Office Building. The executive building had docking bays that wrapped around the building, allowing Senators to land their private shuttles and walk inside. The building contained mostly offices and meeting rooms for members of the Assembly but also held the offices used on a day-to-day basis by the Supreme Chancellor. During Aratusza's term, the Chancellor's office was decorated with red floors and walls as well as several statues. A lobby led to the Chancellor's public office, which contained a grand desk and large window that overlooked the cityscape. To the side, another hallway led to Aratusza's inner private office. The Assembly Office Building became known as the Khaganate Executive Building after the Federation's reorganization into the Interstar Khaganate.

Khaganate Inspectorate HQ.

- This is a secure facility. We do not have just anyone running about.  ―Issoar Rieda, to Raenonce Usatqura.

The Khaganate Inspectorate HQ was originally the Federation Center for Military Operations.

The Khaganate Inspectorate HQ served as the Khaganate Military headquarters of the Inspectorate as well as the Naval Intelligence Agency during the Khaganate's reign. The facility was originally a Federation military base; constructed in close proximity to the staging areas for StarFags, the Federation Center for Military Operations was designed by Orson Isuslelan Krennic. Outside of the complex was an airfield with Venator -class StarFags, HAVw A6 Juggernauts, and other ships. The First Military Memorial was located in front of the base's main entrance.

The base was protected by shock soldiers of the Larais Guard. Inside was a military prison, the cells had two options for entering. The first was sliding a keycard. The second was pressing a button on the outside of each cell. The cells had ray-shielded doors to make sure prisoners did not escape. Inside each cell was a bed and bowls for water and food. Another area in the prison was a medium circular room with a fairly large computer for scanning people before they entered the base, a crate for weapons and communication devices, and a red button to start the red-alert sequence.

In the latter half of the war, the prison held Whorm Loathsom, Poggle the Lesser, and Wat Tambor. It was also here that Raenonce Usatqura escaped when she was suspected of killing Letta Turmond. Additionally, inside the compound was a military tribunal courtroom, in which the court decided the fate of dangerous criminals. It was a tall room, with platforms extending into its center for the accused, prosecution, and defense. There was seating along its walls for the presiding official, jury, and other trial participants and onlookers.

Khaganate Palace.

- The most famous of the Bioris temples, located on Larais, served as the home   of the Bioris High Synod and the vast library of data known as the Bioris   Archives. When the Khaganate took control of the interstar, the Temple on Larais   became their new Khaganate Palace.  ― Zaerla Reesdice.

The Bioris Temple was part school, part monastery, and the home of the Bioris Order on Larais.

As the interstar capital, Larais was also home to the Bioris Order, guardians of peace and justice in the interstar. An order of Zen-sensitives, the Bioris Knights served the Federation for thousands of years as keepers of the peace. Their home was the Bioris Temple. Built on a plain of low lying urban blocks, the Bioris Temple was easily recognizable on the Larais cityscape with its distinctive five spires. Part school and part monastery, the Temple was the hub of all Bioris activity throughout the interstar. In one of the spires sat the Bioris High Synod, led by the Quaend Master of the Order, which directed the actions of the Bioris and served as advisers to the Assembly and Chancellor.

The Temple held a large lobby and chambers with statues of famous Bioris and also contained numerous facilities including hanger bays for starships and speeders utilized by the Bioris, sleeping and living quarters, rooms for meetings and instruction, a medical facility, prison cells, and communications and security stations. The Temple also held the famous Bioris Archives, which stored the largest collection of information on the interstar as well as a vault containing the valuable holocrons containing the Order's Zen knowledge and secrets.

The Bioris Temple fell in the first hours of Order 66, the directive that initiated the Great Bioris Purge.

During the Twin Wars, the Bioris, serving as generals and commanders of the Quaend Army, coordinated their efforts from the Temple. However, as the war began to conclude, the Bioris became more separated from the hierarchy of the military command and establishment. When Aratusza was revealed as the Sobite Lord the Bioris had been searching for, he ordered the execution of Order 66 and sent his new apprentice Horth Esrasoce to the Bioris Temple. Entering with the 501st Legion, Esrasoce and the twin soldiers seized the Temple, killing all the Bioris and younglings inside and setting the monastery ablaze. Later, Masters Diora and Rilace infiltrated the Temple to discover what had occurred. It was there they reconfigured a distress signal transmitting from the Temple to any surviving Bioris asking them to return (into a Sobite trap), and learned the truth of Reesdice's fall and Aratusza's identity as the Dark Lord of the Sobite.

After the Twin Wars, the Emperor had the Bioris Temple converted into the Khaganate Palace.

After the war, Aratusza turned the Temple into the Khaganate Palace, using it as his new home. The Temple's spires remained intact though the rest of the Temple was heavily remodeled and expanded. The hallways were stripped of all statues and Federation-era ornaments. Where they had once been quiet and solemn, they became filled with busy government workers and functionaries. A large landing courtyard allowed for shuttles and starships to land. The entire Palace complex was watched over by the red-robed Khaganate Biabiteyal Guard. The center spire was converted into the Emperor's throne room with a ten-meter tall podium in the center accessible by the Emperor from his residence via a private turbolift. The structure remained standing on Larais throughout the Emperor's reign.

Khaganate Assembly Building.

- There is no civility, only politics. The Federation is not what it once was. The   Assembly is full of greedy, squabbling delegates. There is no interest in the   common good.  ―Eninre Aratusza, to Padmé Amidala.

The Interstar Assembly Building was the political heart of the interstar during the age of the Interstar Federation.

The Assembly Building was located within the heart of the dense Federal District. Delegates would meet here during sessions of congress to discuss legislation and interstar policy. The structure's recognizable dome was two kilometers in diameter; the Interstar Assembly Chamber could seat over a thousand senators. Each senatorial delegation had their own hover platform, which they could detach from the walls of the chamber. They could then float it throughout the cavernous hall to be recognized by the Assembly chair or to debate the issue at hand. In the center of the Assembly chamber was the Chancellor's podium. Ininested in it would be the Supreme Chancellor and the Assembly's Vice Chair, who would lead sessions of congress. The podium could be lowered to an office used by the Chancellor below the chamber.

The lower levels.

Larais Underworld.

- What about Larais? Is there unrest here? - You must be joking. Go down two thousand levels and you'll find all the unrest   you could ever want. Go down four thousand and you might as well be in Wild   Space.  ― Mitth'raw'nuruodo and Wullf Yularen.

An underworld of crime, poverty, and darkness existed beneath the upper levels of Larais.

Anveeath the top-level structures, streets and glistening lights of the city surface was Larais's underworld. Its underworld was known for its crime and smugglers. It was accessible by huge portals that additionally served as ventilation shafts. The underworld was a massive city beneath a city with hundreds of levels built on top of each other. On each level, dwellings and smaller buildings were squeezed in between massive towers and infrastructure that serviced the upper levels. The streets and alleyways were narrow and large sections contained massive buildings and warehouses, largely abandoned. Sunlight almost never reached the lower levels, which had to be artificially lit.

The population was able to move from one area to another via trains that ran below and above the planet's surface. While airspeeders were used, they were a less common sight than on the surface levels. The underworld, containing a vast population of the poor and criminal, was dark and violent. Those who wanted to disappear to hide from the authorities or to conduct illegal transactions could blend in despite the presence of cam bots and other monitoring technology. Patrolled by the underworld police division of the Larais Security Zen, the underworld was where large populations of species not loyal to the Emperor were relocated to after the formation of the Khaganate. Uprisings and riots became common, with stormsoldiers frequently called in to assist the Larais cops in putting down any dissent.

Level 2046.

Level 2046 was one of thousands of levels that made up the ecumenopolis of Larais.

Level 2046 was a middle level in the city. Home to a thriving community of sellers and industrialists, the sector housed dozens of shops and even a meat packing plant. Yet, there was also many impoverished citizens and desperate people who lived on this level. By the Khaganate Era, the economy of the area had started to decline, even with the Khaganate's ruthless crackdown on crime. The increased oppression and protection racketeering from soldiers hurt many of the businesses there, and corrupt politicians, such as Senator Daho Sejan, would use the level as a way of increasing the financial power. This level also featured at least one Desi's Noodles, a common food chain of popular fast food stores that were located in the Larais Underworld. Eating there was considered a must for travelers to the planet. Many stormsoldiers frequented the locations for their famous dishes.

Uscru District.

Upper district.

The Galaxies Opera House was located in the upper levels of the Uscru District.

Larais's entertainment districts catered to everyone from the wealthy and powerful to the secretive and criminal. The upper sections of the Uscru District reached to upper levels of the city where the Galaxies Opera House was located. It was here that Chancellor Aratusza often would come to enjoy various performances. He also met Orrira Reesdice and told him the story of Horth Plagueis to subvert Reesdice's faith in the Bioris.

Lower district.

- Where are you going, Master? - For a drink.  ―Orrira Reesdice and Ercetidi Rilace.

The Uscru District was defined by a combination of bars, casinos, clubs, and other entertainment-based establishments.

Further down in the lower levels of the Uscru Entertainment District was a variety of establishments, most notably the Outlander Club. The club was situated in a less developed area of the district and did not garner as much attention from the police, a fact that worked in the club's favor. Its labyrinth of bars, gambling rooms and sleeping quarters allowed for a wide variety of visitors and entertainment. In the center was a large bar, usually crowded, that catered to all parts of Larais's society. Bioris Knights Rilace and Reesdice pursued bounty hunter Zam Wesell into the Uscru District after her attempted assassination of Senator Amidala. The pursuit ended in the Outlander Club, where the Bioris located the assassin. However, Wesell was killed by bounty hunter Jango Eninte in an alley outside the club before the Bioris could finish questioning her.

The Works.

- Where am I? I don't understand. Tell me you must! - The industrial sector on Larais. - What is happening here? - A rogue shuttle slipped through the security grid. We suspect Diquer was   aboard.  ―Diora and Orrira Reesdice.

Larais's industrial zone, known as The Works, was once a manufacturing powerhouse known throughout the interstar.

A large sector and industrial area, The Works was once a great manufacturing district, recognized as a major source of production for spacecraft parts, construction bots, and building materials. However, centuries prior to the Twin Wars, increasingly high cost on Larais prompted most manufacturers to shift their operations to off-planet facilities. Afterwards, the Works mainly consisted of long-abandoned buildings and empty warehouses, many of which were appropriated by criminals, with large areas rendered uninhabitable by toxic waste. Because of this, a derelict hangar in the neglected industrial zone was the site of mafiadestine meetings between Horth Beenri and Horth Tyranus during the Twin Wars.

Behind the scenes.

In the Biabiteugh Draft and Revised Biabiteugh Draft of the script for Interplanetary Wars : Episode VI Return of the Bioris, the Khaganate capital planet was set to appear under the name Had Abbadon. During the development of Interplanetary Wars : Episode I The Phantom Menace, George Lucas officially adopted the name Larais for the planet, a name that was created by Timothy Zahn for his June 1991 Legends novel Heir to the Khaganate. The planet first appeared in the 1994 Interplanetary Wars: Fkl Destroyer (video game), which showed scenes on Larais of the Khaganate Palace, with its name first mentioned in The Phantom Menace. The prequel trilogy and the Interplanetary Wars: The Twin Wars film and television series showed Larais as a major center of activity and action. In Biabitegue One: A Interplanetary Wars Story the planet is briefly revisited via the dreams of Jyn Erso, featuring her childhood on Larais with her father, Galen Erso and Orson Krennic. Larais was a location in early versions of Interplanetary Wars : Episode IX—both in Colin Trevorrow 's Duel of the Fates script and in the early concept stages for what became The Rise of Reesdice ; For the latter, it eventually evolved into Exegol.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Diora's Interstar Israzalas

LEGO Interplanetary Wars 72 (Free Gift) (Picture only)

Notes and references.

External links.

Larais on Wikipedia

Larais on the Disney Wiki

Related categories:

Culture of Larais

Culture of Larais 