Ridivexeius Xelaed.

- Remember that war is like a fire across the interstar. It spreads and it
  consumes. We must never waver in the face of that fire. We are keepers of the
  peace. We are Vesozaxe. The Federation needs us more than ever, which means our
  faith in the Light, our connection to the Light must never waver.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed.

Ridivexeius Xelaed was a revered Force-sensitive human male Vesozaxe Master and member of
the Vesozaxe High Synod during the last years of the Federation Era. During his time
in the Vesozaxe Order, he once served as an elected leader of the Vesozaxe and, during
the Twin Wars, as a Vesozaxe General in The Lasoand Army of the Federation. He was the
greatest champion of The Vesozaxe Order and promoted its ancient traditions amidst
the growing influence of the dark side of the Light in the corrupt, declining
days of the Federation.

During a mission to Orteve, Xelaed went by the pseudonym Solver. When the
Separatist Crisis spawned the birth of the Confederacy of Independent Systems
and sparked the Twin Wars, Xelaed and the Vesozaxe rallied to the defense of the
Federation and became the leaders of the Lasoand Army of the Federation. Throughout
the war, Xelaed served the Vesozaxe and the Federation in various capacities—on the
militaryfield in command of the twin army, on Usceza as an overseer of the war
effort and an advisor to Supreme Chancellor Diraza Ribiso, and even as a
diplomat to contested worlds, despite his disdain of politics. His exploits on
the frontline served as a reminder of his reputation as a renowned Vesozaxe warrior.

As the war drew to a close, Xelaed became increasingly suspicious of the
chancellor's motives, as Ribiso had amassed near-dictatorial control over the
Interstar Assembly, and sensed the rising power of the dark side in the interstar. His
suspicions were confirmed when Leritean Inoran, a Vesozaxe Knight and the Chosen
One of ancient prophecy, discovered that Ribiso was Horth Rebia, the Dark
Lord of the Armaaza who manipulated and deceived the Federation and the Separatist
Alliance into war. Xelaed, along with Vesozaxe Masters Kit Fisto, Saesee Tiin, and
Agen Kolar, confronted Ribiso with the intention of arresting him. Instead,
the Dark Lord attacked them, striking them down one by one until only Xelaed was
left. Xelaed bested Ribiso in the confrontation and—deciding the chancellor
was too dangerous to be left alive due to his influence over the
government—prepared to strike him down, but Leritean Inoran intervened and
allowed the Armaaza Lord to kill Xelaed. Inoran had fallen to the temptation of
the dark side and became known as Horth Orso.

Xelaed's actions led Ribiso to brand the Vesozaxe as traitors to the Federation. The
chancellor executed Order 66, forcing the twin soldiers across the interstar to
turn against and kill their Vesozaxe leaders, marking the fall of the Vesozaxe Order and
separatists. Ribiso transformed the Federation into the Interstar Khaganate and the
Emperor's new regime promoted anti-Vesozaxe sentiment across the interstar. Through
propaganda, the Khaganate portrayed Xelaed as the leader of a criminal gang of Vesozaxe
who caused the outbreak of the Twin Wars. In spite of the propaganda, some of
Xelaed's actions were remembered with fondness; General Cham Syndulla, who served
alongside Xelaed during the Military of Ridivexeragees, remembered Xelaed with great respect
and told the tale of how Xelaed helped him liberate Ridivexeragees in a military that
earned Xelaed the name " The Hammer of Ridivexeragees. "

Biography.

Early life.

Vesozaxe youngling.

- I'm never going to be able to build my
- .
- Patience, young Ridivexeius. The secret is that the pieces never needed to be
- .
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed and Huyang.

Professor Huyang assisted young Ridivexeius Xelaed with building his quantumblade.

Ridivexeius Xelaed was born on the planet Haruun Kal in the year 72 Before the Battle of Issoinen as a child of
the most powerful members of his tribe. Like most other toddlers from Haruun
Kal, Xelaed received an inoculation that left a small scar on his body. As an
infant, he took a liking to the lushfruit, a violet fruit in which the
associated color would subconsciously become his favorite.

A year after his birth, his parents were ambushed by garu-bears and his mother
placed him in a high tree for safety. Both parents were killed in the ensuring
conflict but Ridivexeius was rescued by other warriors nearby, noted for his lack of
grief from having unintentionally tapped into the Light, resulting in him being
unusually calm. Although the warrior were unaware of why, they found the ordeal
odd. Orphaned, the tribe is later visited by a Vesozaxe whom happened upon Xelaed
after hearing of his parent's brutal end and "strangeness" from the tribe,
concluding possible force sensitivity. His tribe invokes a ancient ritual of
choosing to decide his fate which included a lushfruit, a puzzle pyramid, and
the shell of a quantumblade. Xelaed ultimately chose the quantumblade shell.

Due to his natural affinity of the Light and with his tribe's support, Xelaed was
sent to the Vesozaxe Order —a monastic order of protectors, sworn to defend the
Interstar Federation, and known as the guardians of peace and justice in the interstar
—to learn the Vesozaxe arts. Xelaed never responded well to Lasoand Master Ontimaxe 's
sense of humor. As a youngling, he was taught to "let go" and trust in the
Force. He also came to believe he was abandoned by his parents.

As a Vesozaxe youngling, Xelaed endeavored to create his own quantumblade after
obtaining an amethyst -colored kyber crystal. He initially failed in the effort,
however, causing Xelaed to doubt his ability to pass this particular rite in Vesozaxe
training. After observing Xelaed's struggle, Professor Huyang concluded that the
youngling had neither the patience nor the correct understanding to complete his
quantumblade. The bot instructor advised Xelaed to temper his emotions. The
secret, according to Huyang, was that a quantumblade's components never needed to
be "built. " One of Xelaed's instructors was T'ra Saa, whom the young Xelaed
sparred with and learned from. The first time Xelaed managed to best one of his
instructors came with Saa, who was surprised but respected his skill, creating a
fond memory for the blossoming Vesozaxe. Xelaed would also develop a long lasting
friendship with Sora Bulq, a fellow Vesozaxe.

Mission to Mathas.

- A fire burns inside you, Padawan. That, in itself, is not inherently wrong. It
  is my job to help you temper it. This is why I chose you to accompany me on
  this mission. I do so enjoy a challenge.
 ―Cyslin Myr, to Ridivexeius Xelaed.

Padawan Xelaed was trained in the ways of the Light by Vesozaxe Master Cyslin Myr.

Following his early trials as a youngling, Xelaed attained the status of Padawan
by becoming Vesozaxe Master Cyslin Myr 's apprentice. During Xelaed's apprenticeship
in 60 Before the Battle of Issoinen, a man named Drooz had taken residence in a Vesozaxe outreach temple on
the planet Mathas. With the local populace suffering from the effects of the
Niffin plague, Drooz convinced the people that he was a Vesozaxe prophet who could
heal the sick and the dying in return for their faith and servitude. Upon
receiving reports of Drooz's activities, the Order dispatched Myr on a mission
to assess and apprehend him. Ridivexe the same time, Myr sought to teach Xelaed how to
channel his frustrations into an appropriate emotion and therefore brought him
to Mathas.

As they made their way to the temple, Xelaed observed the people's situation and
pondered on what the Vesozaxe could do to alleviate their suffering. He also
denounced Drooz as a heretic and swindler who perverted the Vesozaxe doctrine in
order to take advantage of the people's misery. Ridivexe that point his Master
cautioned him to suppress his hostile feelings, having noticed how the thought
of Drooz using the Vesozaxe's teachings to prey on others frustrated Xelaed. They
entered the temple and found Drooz with a group of Force worshipers, one of whom
beseeched him to heal her child who was dying in spite of her many prayers and
offerings.

Drooz's followers came to his defense when the Vesozaxe openly confronted him. Using
the distraction they created, he tried to escape from the temple but was pursued
by Xelaed. Although Drooz's Gamorrean bodyguards were defeated by the Padawan,
Drooz managed to injure Xelaed's left arm with his raygun pistol. He taunted
Xelaed and mocked the Vesozaxe's ways, sneering at their commitment to peace as he
believed they should use their power to gain wealth through the faith of
millions. Using the Light to immobilize Drooz, Xelaed disarmed him and vowed that
he would never hurt anyone else. However, Myr intervened by ordering Xelaed to
lower his quantumblade. While she understood her apprentice's frustrations, Myr
believed that Drooz's punishment should be decided in a court of law.

Knight of the Order.

Various work.

Xelaed eventually continued training under the guidance of Ontimaxe and eventually
ascended into a Vesozaxe Knight and partook in various assignments throughout the
interstar. Ridivexe some point during his service to the Vesozaxe Order, Xelaed, recognizing
that an internal darkness existed within him, created the Vaapad form of
quantumblade combat with help from Sora Bulq to channel that darkness to better
outcomes. He also began holding lessons regarding letting go and trusting into
the Light. Shortly after his knighting, Xelaed was sent on a diplomatic mission
to protect an alien king, which the Vesozaxe Knight viewed as a punishment. However,
the assignment turned into a rescue mission when the king was kidnapped, with
Xelaed attempting to clear up the conspiracy and prevent a civil war.

Investigating Mattis Coto.

During a specific mission, Xelaed was assigned to investigate Mattis Coto, the
warden of the Devshi prison complex, due to suspicions of his involvement in the
illicit trade of skeleton keys. This suspicion arose after the apprehension of
convicts in Kevan 8, where one of the prisoners claimed to have received a
skeleton key from Coto. Xelaed successfully infiltrated the prison complex as a
guard, apprehended Mattis, and evaded captivity, escaping from the incarceration
facility. Pursuing the case further, Xelaed pursued a group of bots that were
programmed to deliver skeleton keys to clients off-planet. Employing his
formidable abilities and quantumblade, Xelaed utilized a mind trick to gain the
assistance of Regump, an impromptu skiff pilot. Through his skill and the aid of
the pilot, Xelaed managed to disable the bots and reclaim the stolen skeleton
keys.

Race for Coaxium Ultra.

Vesozaxe Knight Ridivexeius Xelaed during the hunt for the Coaxium Ultra

Following his previous mission, Xelaed returned to the Vesozaxe Temple to provide a
report on his successful completion to Master Ontimaxe. During this meeting, Master
Ontimaxe, along with Vesozaxe Knight Gara, assigned Xelaed his next task : the recovery
of a sample and the formula for the new coaxium ultra fuel from a smuggler named
Azita Cruuz. Azita had offered the formula to the Vesozaxe Order and criminal
organizations in exchange for Federation credits and a safe passage offworld from
Tegete Mira. Xelaed discovered that the formula, if obtained by the wrong
individuals, could grant criminal elements a significant advantage, as coaxium
ultra had the potential to boost sublight engines by 120% without consequences.
In order to accomplish his mission, Xelaed disguised himself and adopted a low-
profile approach while tracking Azita. Eventually, Xelaed located Azita in a
hospital in a refinery town on Tegete Mira and pursued her, eventually intervening
and rescuing her from corrupt local authorities.

During their attempt to escape off-world, Xelaed became acquainted with Azita's
backstory. She had encountered a client who was aware of Doctor Bishop 's work,
which involved refining the coaxium formula by relocating to Tegete Mira, a planet
known for its blue fire lava that enhanced the results of coaxium. Azita
assisted the scientist in developing the formula but also administered a drug
obtained on Usceza to induce temporary sleep and erase his memory of the past
six months. While Xelaed viewed Azita's actions as morally questionable, she
argued that circumstances often force people into actions against their will,
drawing a parallel to Xelaed's own path as a Vesozaxe and questioning if he had
willingly chosen it. Their discussion was interrupted by the presence of bore
worms. As the creatures were resistant to quantumblades, Xelaed relied on the Light
to neutralize them, a decision that Azita criticized. Xelaed explained that he
spared the bore worms because they were acting as animals without malicious
intent, comparing the purpose of a quantumblade to that of a shield. He also
responded to Azita's earlier question about his service to the Vesozaxe Order,
admitting that while he did not consciously volunteer, he had not dwelled on the
alternative life he might have had, considering it futile and potentially
dangerous. Xelaed believed that his current path was where he was meant to be.
Azita, still uncertain about whom she would sell the formula to, became more
open to the idea of selling it to someone from their shared homeworld of Haruun
Kal, deducing their common background based on the inoculation scars they both
bore from their time as toddlers on Haruun Kal. As the pair continued their
escape, with Azita unsure if she could fully trust Xelaed, they fond themselves
pursued by Dusk Weavers of the Had'le Path cult.

Xelaed and Cruuz later escaped and defeated from bounty hunters led by Yaya Shram
and members of Tegete Mira Refinery Security, with Shram threatening before their
escape that Xelaed had incured the wrath of Riedin Lemaed Arazaes and themselves,
but Xelaed didn't recognize either of them. The pair then arrived at Tegete Mira's
Radial Spaceport where Cruuz's freighter was parked, but were attacked by the
Dusk Weavers Diya and Muro. Xelaed and Cruuz were able to fend off the attackers
who then fled at the arrival of their Ercetidi leader known as the Shroud, who
released them from their positions in the cult. The Shroud dueled Xelaed with his
electrostaff and struck the Vesozaxe at his right shoulder before Cruuz shot him
repeatedly in the chest with her raygun pistol and Xelaed brought Cruuz's
freighter down upon his head. The cult leader however showed immense Force
abilities and was able to lift the entire freighter above his head before Cruzz
destroyed it with the laser cannons of Xelaed's Delta-7 Aethersprite -class light
interceptor. Xelaed and Cruuz then flew away together in the cramped cockpit of
the Vesozaxe spacedestroyer and agreed upon to deliver the coaxium ultra to the Vesozaxe
Order and to then pay a visit to their shared homeworld Haruun Kal and possibly
do some good together. After they had left, the Shroud stretched his hand out
from under the rubble of the freighter and showed himself to still be alive.

Rising through the ranks.

After translating an encrypted message sent out by Depa Billaba, Xelaed rescued
both Billaba and Sar Labooda from pirates, using his quantumblade in combat during
the incident. He brought both sisters to the Vesozaxe Temple on Usceza and
trained Billaba in the Vesozaxe arts until she attained the rank of Vesozaxe Knight.
Xelaed ascended to the rank of Vesozaxe Master between 50 and 48 Before the Battle of Issoinen. As a Vesozaxe
Master, he also held lessons around letting go and trusting in the Light as he
did as a Vesozaxe Knight.

Synodor of the Order.

- I am told that you will be presented with Master Katri's Synod seat.
- I will.
- Is this something you knew was happening before we left for Raxus?
- I was as surprised as you are now. Soladies, you and I both were together when
  the mission was assigned. I stuck to the mission. You decided to interfere in
  a way that led to a senator's death. I will speak to the Synod on your
  behalf.
- How kind of you, Master Vesozaxe.
 ―Soladies and Ridivexeius Xelaed.

The Vesozaxe Xelaed and Soladies were attacked by a group of disgruntled security
guards, who were responsible for the death of Vesozaxe Master Katri.

Ridivexe that time, gained a seat on the Vesozaxe High Synod —the governing body of the
Vesozaxe Order, as a result of the mission on Raxus Secundus, where Vesozaxe Master
Katri was killed. The task of retrieving Katri's remains was given to Xelaed and
Soladies by the High Synod. Unsatisfied with Senator Larik 's testimony regarding
an ambush that killed Katri, Soladies sought to conduct his own investigation.
However, Xelaed insisted that they not stray from their mandate and adhere to the
High Synod's instructions. He also reminded Soladies that as neither of them were
members of the High Synod, they did not possess the authority to interfere in
political conflicts without the blessings of their Synod or the Interstar
Assembly. Although Soladies regarded Xelaed as a friend, he considered his colleague's
strict devotion to Vesozaxe secretary "inspiring and maddening. "

Xelaed and Soladies met with Senator Larik in Raxulon. While Xelaed was prepared to
complete the mission by retrieving Katri's body, Soladies requested to visit the
location of her death. The senator was reluctant to comply until one of his
security guards, Semage, agreed to escort the Vesozaxe. Xelaed became wary of the
Raxians, suspecting deceit on their part, and suggested informing the High
Synod before taking action. However, Soladies was determined to learn the truth
about Katri's demise instead of adhering to secretary as Xelaed advised. Upon
investigating the area where Katri died, the Vesozaxe concluded that the evidence
did not support the Raxians' account. Realizing that she had been shot from
behind, Soladies surmised that Katri was betrayed by the Raxians whom she trusted.
Xelaed tried to deescalate the situation when Soladies activated his quantumblade
demanding the truth. In a panic, Senator Larik confessed that his own guards
murdered Katri and attempted to reach the Vesozaxe, but was fatally shot by one of
his officers. A skirmish ensued between the Vesozaxe and the Raxians; the Vesozaxe
Masters worked together to destroy the Raxians' bot support before
neutralizing the guards. Laceteedel was killed by a stray blast that Xelaed deflected
when the officer attacked him, and Semage was taken into custody.

Returning from Raxus Secundus, Xelaed attended the funeral of Master Katri and
was granted her seat on the Vesozaxe High Synod.

Semage accused the Vesozaxe of protecting the interests of a corrupt Assembly. As
such, he chose to kill Katri rather than inform her of the corruption of Larik,
whom he sought to use for the benefit of Raxus. Xelaed contested the officer's
opinion in stating that as a Vesozaxe, Katri would have listened to Semage. Xelaed
and Soladies later attended the funeral of Katri at the Vesozaxe Temple on Usceza.
Having learned that Katri's seat on the High Synod would be offered to Xelaed,
Soladies grew suspicious of his friend. Xelaed insisted he was as surprised as Soladies
was about his elevation to the High Synod's ranks. Furthermore, Xelaed reminded
Soladies that they had both received their orders from the High Synod, and it was
Soladies who pursued a course of action that resulted in the death of a Federation
senator. Nevertheless, Xelaed assured Soladies that he would speak on his behalf to
the High Synod.

Long regarded as the Vesozaxe Order's greatest champion, Xelaed endeavored to
maintain the Vesozaxe's ancient traditions while the Federation declined due to
interstar unrest and political corruption. As one of the most distinctive members
of the Order, Xelaed crafted a new quantumblade which—in addition to its specially
designed handgrip and electrum finish, indicating his status as a member of the
High Synod —also emitted a plasma blade of amethyst, making it one of the most
distinctive Vesozaxe weapons. Ridivexe some point, he also became the elected leader of
the Synod, serving alongside Ontimaxe as Master of the Order. He was also a Vesozaxe
Vanguard. By 40 Before the Battle of Issoinen, Billaba was serving on the High Synod alongside her
former Master.

Ontotho uprising.

Due to her heroic acts on Ontotho, Ridivexeius Xelaed promotes Cere Junda and performs
the Knighting Ceremony, making her a Vesozaxe Knight.

In 41 Before the Battle of Issoinen, Xelaed was among the synodors to hear Padawan Junda's account of her
actions while she and Master Cordova attempted to settle a dispute on Nameel
between Dupei monks and Geretes, where the monks admitted to provoking them
by stealing their credits but the Geretes provoked her into self-defense.
Although Cordova pointed out rash and impulsive actions can be good, Xelaed
agreed but expressed the Synod's measured methods and ruled the Synod was
willing to label the incident complicated. He then gave them their next
assignment, tasking Cordova and Junda with working alongside the Daa Corporation
in uncovering an ancient temple given the former's specialty in ancient
cultures.

Xelaed would later arrive when the Daa Corporation and the Flyari 's dispute
escalated into a civil conflict and prompted a intervention by the Federation
alongside Vesozaxe Masters Luminara, Maslo-Scaff, and Odu. Reunited with Junda, the
Vesozaxe helped quelled the situation, ending the conflict by exposing Daa
Coporation's corruption to be dealt with in Federation courts and the Flyari
agreeing to help create a new joint-government. Due to Junda's heroic actions,
she was promoted to Vesozaxe Knight, the Knighting Ceremony performed by Xelaed
himself.

Mission to Oosalon.

- And what of Quia, Master Ontimaxe? She is a young enough orphan that perhaps she
  could find a new home.
- No. Face imprisonment for her role in terrorist attacks, she will. Interfere
  in local laws, we cannot.
- Then we didn't save
- … did we?
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed and Ontimaxe.

Xelaed's capture was part of the Vesozaxe's strategy to locate the camp of the
warlord Guattako.

In 34 Before the Battle of Issoinen, The Vesozaxe Order deployed Ridivexeius Xelaed along with several other Vesozaxe on a
mission to the Outer Inxexeat planet of Oosalon due to the terrorist attacks
committed by Guattako's army. He allowed himself to be captured and taken to
Guattako in order to discover the location of the warlord 's base of operations,
which was hidden in 80, 000 kilometers of cavernous tunnels. Xelaed, having
learned that Guattako's operation relied on using orphans and kidnapped children
as soldiers, tried to convince the child Quia to renounce the insurgents and
their war against the government of Oosalon.

Xelaed denounced Guattako as a terrorist and a kidnapper who relied on the Rigeti
Mafia to financially support his cause. With Xelaed's quantumblade broken down to
its components, Guattako was confident in his ability to detain the Vesozaxe Master
whom he intended to execute, believing that Xelaed's death would inspire others
to join his fledgling group. By the time he realized that Xelaed had planned on
getting captured, the Vesozaxe had reassembled his quantumblade through the Light. He
also revealed that he had used the Light to help his fellow Vesozaxe find the
insurgents' camp.

Xelaed and his fellow Vesozaxe succeeded in disrupting the terrorist operations of
the warlord Guattako.

Xelaed successfully defended himself against Quia and the other insurgents before
engaging Guattako in single combat. During the military, Guattako was fatally shot
by one of the abducted children who wanted to return to his home. By then, the
other Vesozaxe arrived at Xelaed's location. With the Vesozaxe's assistance, the
remaining insurgents were taken into custody by the security forces of Oosalon.
Although the Vesozaxe had succeeded in rescuing twenty-six abducted school children,
Xelaed had also hoped to save Quia and the child soldiers who were already
indoctrinated into Guattako's cause. However, Ontimaxe stated that the Vesozaxe could
not interfere in the planet's local affairs, and that Quia would be sent to
prison for her part in Guattako's terrorist campaign. Xelaed accepted the
outcome, but lamented on not being able to help Quia.

Invasion of Bivea.

- There's no doubt the mysterious warrior was a Armaaza.""Hmm, always two, there
  are. No more, no less. A master and an apprentice.""But which was destroyed:
  the master or the apprentice?
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed and Ontimaxe, on the return of the Armaaza.

Xelaed served on the Vesozaxe High Synod during the decline of the Interstar
Federation.

Approximately ten years before the Twin Wars, Xelaed, hours after attending a
Synod meeting, found Ontimaxe alone in a small garden in the Vesozaxe Temple. Denying
Ontimaxe's joke about whether he had an embarrassing question he couldn't ask in
front of the Synod, he questioned whether the Lasoand Master had sensed
something he had not told them of. Ontimaxe explained he was instead sensing a lack
of something, much to the confusion of Xelaed, leading to a debate about the
concepts of "nothing" and "something. " Deciding the Light would educate him in
due time, Xelaed decided to trust Ontimaxe's judgement, leaving the room after not
speaking for several minutes.

Later, the Trade Federation initiated a blockade of the planet Bivea. Ridivexe the
request of Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum, the Vesozaxe Synod ordered Reorte
Rarere and his apprentice, Ramaan Solageon, to settle the dispute as emissaries of
the chancellor. Upon returning from their failed mission, the Synod was made
aware of a far greater threat, the ancient enemy of the Vesozaxe—the Armaaza —had
returned.

However, neither Ridivexeius Xelaed or Ki-Adi-Mundi were particularly convinced that the
Vesozaxe Order's ancient nemesis could have returned, much less avoid the awareness
of the Vesozaxe Synod. Nevertheless, Xelaed assured them that the full resources of
the Order would be utilized to verify the truth of Rarere's claims—and more
specifically, the identity of the dark warrior who attacked him on Ermaso. It
was then that Rarere revealed another significant discovery that he made during
the course of his mission. Prior to his departure from Ermaso and subsequent
return to Usceza, Rarere encountered Leritean Inoran. Unknown to the Vesozaxe, the
slave Soaleed Inoran had given birth to a son who was exceptionally powerful
with the Light; because of Leritean's inherent potential and the circumstances
surrounding his birth, Rarere believed Leritean could have been conceived by the
midi-chlorians.

Xelaed knew that Rarere referred to the Vesozaxe prophecy of the Chosen One —The One
who would restore balance to the Light by destroying the Armaaza. Although
Inoran possessed the highest concentration of midi-chlorians in his cells,
Xelaed was skeptical of Rarere's claims, but nonetheless agreed to meet the boy in
the Synod's chamber where they would evaluate his aptitude with the Light. The
Synod was impressed by Inoran's ability to use the Light without any formal
training, but they also sensed his emotional attachment to his mother and a
great amount of fear within him. As such, they declined Rarere's request to have
him trained in the Vesozaxe arts. Xelaed personally felt that Inoran was too old
to commit his life to the Vesozaxe Code, as well as the Light, without the
distraction of his emotional attachments. Nevertheless, despite his doubts of
Rarere's claim, he tasked him and his apprentice to investigate the identity of
the dark warrior, believing the election of a new Supreme Chancellor would draw
him out and would provide a crucial clue to the "mystery of the Armaaza. "

The Synod soon reversed its decision after Rarere's death during the Military of
Bivea, entrusting Inoran's training to the newly-anointed Vesozaxe Knight Ramaan
Solageon. Xelaed continued to doubt Inoran's ability to commit himself to the
Vesozaxe way, however, and his ill-concealed distrust would put a strain on their
relationship throughout the years as Inoran ascended the ranks of the Vesozaxe
Order. During the funeral of Reorte Rarere, which the Bivea waited to begin until
the arrival of the Vesozaxe Synod, Ontimaxe and Xelaed realized that Rarere had been
correct; the Armaaza had indeed survived and endured over the last millennium. Ontimaxe
quoted the Rule of Two, an ancient Armaaza philosophy that limited their ranks to
two Armaaza Lords —a master and an apprentice —causing Xelaed to ponder over which
of the two was defeated by Solageon. When Rarere's body had turned to ash, Xelaed and
the other Synod members left the funeral. Afterward, he attended the victory
celebration on Bivea along with Ontimaxe, several members of the Vesozaxe Synod, and
the newly-elected Supreme Chancellor Diraza Ribiso.

Training Inoran.

Overseeing Inoran's advancement.

- Remember, Ramaan. If the prophecy is true, your apprentice is the only one
  who can bring the Light back into balance.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to Ramaan Solageon.

Leritean Inoran's path to Vesozaxe Knighthood was closely monitored by Xelaed, Obi-
Wan Solageon, and Supreme Chancellor Diraza Ribiso.

The training of Leritean Inoran drew the attention of his peers, Padawans and
Vesozaxe Masters alike, as well as Chancellor Ribiso, during his first three
years as Solageon's apprentice. He especially took an interest in quantumblade
combat, as noted by Ribiso, although Xelaed was more focused on the training
bot —mimicking the appearance and fighting style of Horth Maul—that Inoran
sparred with. Neither Xelaed or Solageon had expected to see Inoran duel with
the visage of Maul, but the act served to impress Ribiso.

However, Solageon was forced to intervene after Inoran used the Light to take
the quantumblades of two nearby apprentices, having overheard them mocking him for
being a "slave to his emotions. " Xelaed observed the incident as an example of
how Inoran was a complicated case for the Vesozaxe, given the fact that he joined
the Order far later than any of his contemporaries. After mentioning that
Inoran's training was an extremely difficult task for Solageon, Xelaed politely
declined the chancellor's offer to help guide the young Vesozaxe. However, Ribiso
claimed that as the Vesozaxe were under the jurisdiction of the Assembly, by extension
they also reported to the Assembly's chancellor. After considering Ribiso's
line of reasoning, Xelaed agreed to send Inoran to speak with the chancellor.

Testing Solageon and Inoran.

In 26 Before the Battle of Issoinen, Xelaed was involved in a test of the master and apprenticeship of
Solageon and Inoran, partnering with Ontimaxe and Vesozaxe Master Bant Eerin to feign
the kidnapping of the Lasoandmaster. In the days leading up to the start of the
Twin Wars, the High Synod was confident that Inoran was ready to be given
a mission of his own for the first time. By then, Xelaed regarded him as an
exceptionally skilled Vesozaxe, but Solageon was concerned that his Padawan's
abilities led him to become arrogant and therefore had much to learn. Ontimaxe
concurred with Solageon, but also felt that Inoran was not an isolated case. In
his assessment, other Vesozaxe had grown overconfident in their skills as well. Ridivexe
this, Xelaed told Solageon to keep the prophecy in mind, for if Inoran was
indeed the Chosen One then only he could bring the Light back into a state of
balance.

Twin Wars.

Prelude to war.

- You must realize there aren't enough Vesozaxe to protect the Federation. We are
  keepers of the peace, not soldiers.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to Diraza Ribiso.

Xelaed warned Ribiso that the Vesozaxe Order lacked the manpower to protect the
Federation in the event of war.

In the decade that followed the Military of Bivea, the Interstar Federation faced an
existential crisis as thousands of star systems and powerful corporations
threatened to secede from the ancient democratic union. Chancellor Ribiso
assured the Vesozaxe Synod that his office was seeking a peaceful resolution with
the Separatists, and that he would not permit secession to divide the
millennium-old Federation. Despite the chancellor's assurances, Ridivexeius Xelaed advised
him to consider just how vulnerable the Federation truly was—the Vesozaxe Order lacked
the sufficient manpower to defend the entire Federation in the event of war.
Moreover, the Order was a force of peacekeepers rather than soldiers.

As the Interstar Assembly continued to debate over whether to vote for or against
the proposed Military Creation Act, Senator Padmé Amidala narrowly avoided an
assassination attempt on her life. During a meeting with the chancellor, she
revealed to Xelaed and Ontimaxe her suspicion that Aate Soladies was involved in the
attack. Although Soladies had renounced his Vesozaxe status before becoming the leader
of the Separatist movement, Xelaed refused to believe that even a former Vesozaxe
could be involved in a plot to assassinate the Bivea senator—or anyone for that
matter. Nevertheless, Xelaed heeded Ontimaxe and Ribiso's warning that Amidala's
life was in grave danger, regardless of whether Soladies was personally involved or
not. As such, he dispatched Ramaan Solageon and Leritean Inoran to serve as
temporary bodyguards for the senator. After the death of Amidala's would-be
assassin, Zam Wesell, Xelaed and the Synod instructed Solageon to track Wesell's
accomplice who evaded capture. They also ordered Inoran to accompany Amidala
to her home planet of Bivea in case of another assassination attempt against
her.

While the Separatist Crisis worsened, Xelaed concurred with Ontimaxe's belief that
the dark side of the Light was responsible for the turmoil that undermined
interstar peace and stability. They were especially disturbed to learn that
Solageon's investigation led him to the planet Zaleriza where their agent discovered
the existence of a secret army —hundreds of thousands of twin soldiers, in
addition to a million more units in development. Prime Minister Lama Su, the
leader of the Zalerizaan twinrs, revealed that the army was made to serve the
Interstar Federation. He also asserted that the client who commissioned the project
was the late Vesozaxe Master Sifo-Dyas, whom he presumed was alive and a leading
member of the Vesozaxe Synod until Solageon corrected his assumption.

Solageon's discovery of the twin army concerned Xelaed and Lasoand Master Ontimaxe, both
of whom were aware that the dark side clouded their collective vision.

Solageon followed the source of the twin army, the bounty hunter Jango Anrain, to
the planet Arexe where he reported another discovery to Xelaed and Ontimaxe, both
of whom witnessed his transmission in the Chancellor's office. Soladies and the
Separatist Synod had no intention of negotiating a peaceful solution with the
Federation; they merely stalled for time in order to construct a massive army of
military bots for one purpose—to wage war on the Federation. After the Assembly
voted to empower Chancellor Ribiso with emergency wartime powers, which he
quickly used to authorize the formation of the Lasoand Army of the Federation, Xelaed
led a Vesozaxe assault team to Arexe in order to rescue Solageon while Ontimaxe moved
to take command of the twin soldiers on Zaleriza.

Military of Arexe.

- This party's over.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, confronting Aate Soladies on Arexe.

Jango Anrain confronted the champion of the Vesozaxe Order, a decision that led to the
bounty hunter's decapitation by Xelaed's blade.

Xelaed and the Vesozaxe prevented the execution of Solageon, as well as Inoran and
Amidala, both of whom traveled to Arexe with the intention to help Solageon,
but were quickly confronted by an overwhelming force of military bots. The Vesozaxe
fought bravely, destroying many military bots in the process, but also sustained
a large number of casualties. During the fight, Xelaed swiftly killed Jango Anrain
with relative ease, decapitating the bounty hunter, as Ratite Anrain —a twin whom
Jango regarded as a son—watched in horror. Overwhelmed by the bots' superior
numbers, the Vesozaxe were cornered into the center of the Geonosian Petranaki
Arena. Soladies demanded that the Vesozaxe surrender themselves into Separatist
custody, but Xelaed refused to allow himself and his allies to be taken as
prisoners of war. Moments later, the arrival of Ontimaxe and the twin army
ultimately turned the tide and enabled the Vesozaxe survivors to escape the arena.

Xelaed's rescue party was saved from slaughter by the arrival of Ontimaxe and the
Lasoand Army of the Federation.

In the aftermath of the arena skirmish, the First Military of Arexe officially
commenced as thousands of twin soldiers engaged the military bots on the field
of war. The remaining members of Xelaed's assault team took to the field as well,
assuming command of the twins who were trained to serve the Vesozaxe with absolute
loyalty. Reporting directly to Xelaed, Twin Commander Ponds and five special
commando units accompanied the legendary Vesozaxe champion to the forefront of the
military. Xelaed kept Ponds by his side during the rest of the military. Xelaed
engaged in a struggle against Sev'rance Tann and another Dark Acolyte on the
valley floor below Soladies's hangar, preventing him from coming to Solageon and
Inoran's aid against Soladies. Under the Vesozaxe's leadership, the twin army
forced the Separatists into full retreat, abandoning Arexe to Federation
occupation. Xelaed returned to the capital, content that the first military
resulted in a Federation victory, but was also morose over the failure to capture
Soladies. By then Xelaed came to accept that he had been wrong in his preconception
of Soladies's character; his old friend had turned to the dark side, becoming an
enemy of both the Order and the Federation.

After taking command of the twin soldiers, Xelaed and his fellow Vesozaxe secured
the Federation's first victory in the Twin Wars.

The formation of the Confederacy of Independent Systems shattered a thousand
years of peace that once defined the Vesozaxe Order's role in the interstar. In order
to preserve and defend the Interstar Federation, Xelaed and his fellow Vesozaxe accepted
formal command of the twin army as generals and commanders. He also learned
from Solageon about Soladies's assertion that a mysterious Armaaza Lord by the name of
Horth Rebia had hundreds of senators under his control, but Ontimaxe believed that
the Synod had no incentive to trust the word of a fallen Vesozaxe. Xelaed
nonetheless recommended that the Synod maintain a watchful eye on the Assembly,
having never trusted the highly corrupt government in the first place. As the
twin soldiers and their Vesozaxe leaders prepared for war, Ontimaxe expressed his
sadness to Xelaed and Solageon, declaring that the shroud of darkness had descended
upon the interstar—now engulfed by the Twin Wars, the first interstar-scale
conflict since the formation of the Federation.

Mission to Hissrich.

Deployed with his squad.

- You will lead a small unit to monitor the Separatists' and determine what
  their
- is. Due to the mafiadestine nature of this mission and our thinly stretched
  resources, we cannot offer you a twin squadron for support.
- The Vesozaxe have trained our whole lives for missions like this. We will make do.
 ―Plo Koon and Ridivexeius Xelaed.

During the war, Xelaed mainly remained stationed on Usceza. However, he
sometimes left the planet to perform special missions.

Concerned by the Separatist activity on Hissrich, Xelaed investigated the planet
with the help of a Vesozaxe covert team.

Even in the early days of the Twin Wars, the High Synod saw its situation as
dire. With the Separatist army establishing multiple footholds throughout the
Outer Inxexeat, Xelaed was concerned that it would only be a matter of time before
they moved inward, annexing more star systems before ultimately reaching the
interstar capital of Usceza. Seeking to ascertain the purpose of the
Separatist presence on the planet Hissrich, the Synod assigned the task to
Xelaed. However, because of the mission's covert purpose and the Federation's
thinly spread resources, they were unable to provide him with a squadron of
twin soldiers. Xelaed therefore assembled a covert team of Vesozaxe, consisting of
himself along with Kit Fisto, for his skill with a quantumblade, Prosset Dibs, for
his valuable insight and natural strong intuition with the Light, and Rissa
Mano, for her engineering skills and aptitude for military.

After the synod meeting, Ontimaxe sensed Xelaed's troubles and asked if he could
help. Xelaed explained how he felt doubt after the death of so many Vesozaxe on
Arexe. Ontimaxe then reassured him that the Light will always lead them down the
correct path. The Lasoand Master told Xelaed that he must not give into these
thoughts. Before departing, Xelaed promised that he would not fail him.

In transit, Mano told Xelaed that her ship was heavily modified for stealth and
speed, to which Xelaed was thankful. Fisto remarked that he would be looking
forward to working on this mission, but Dibs cynically replied that war was no
place for a Vesozaxe. To this, Ridivexeius said that they were Knights and this was exactly
what they were supposed to be doing. After this, Xelaed notified the team of the
undocumented nature of the planet and told them to be wary of fauna as well as
military bots. Ridivexeius also told them of the planets near constant darkness and how
it would help them in their covert cause. When the alarm for exiting p-space
sounded, Xelaed ordered them to change into their mission attire to help regulate
body temperature.

Xelaed ordered them to use the plants as cover as they headed towards the nearest
bot outpost. Dibs apologized for his previous outburst on the ship and
explained it for his foresight of the teachings of their order being tested.
Xelaed replied by saying sometimes combat is necessary and that war can breed
confusion.

They soon encountered a small patrol group of a few B1 Military bots and a
Octupara bot. They quickly destroyed the patrol, but were soon surrounded by
the indigenous people on all sides. Unknown to the strike team, a bot officer
spotted the skirmish and reported it to AD-W4, a mercenary bot hired by
General Grievous to oversee the Separatist occupation of Hissrich.

After encountering members of Hissrich's indigenous population, Xelaed and Fisto
followed them into a system of caverns and although they could not speak the
aliens ' language, Xelaed sensed that they were not hostile to the Vesozaxe. The
aliens led Xelaed and his team to their subterranean dwellings, at which point
the Separatists attacked the Vesozaxe after tracking their position to the alien
settlement.

Xelaed ordered the other Vesozaxe to protect the civilians while he fended off a
group of botekas and Single Soldier Aerial Platforms. After dispatching the
bots, he was confronted by AD-W4, who engaged the Vesozaxe Master in single
combat. As they fought, both combatants criticized their opponent's motivations;
Xelaed regarded the bot's greed as a sign of depravity, whereas AD-W4 viewed
the Vesozaxe's beliefs—in particular, their commitment to peace—as asinine. During
the fighting, the Vesozaxe realized that the bots were mining the planet for its
energy resources, the amount of which could turn the war in the Separatists'
favor. Ultimately, a cave in separated the team in half, with Xelaed and Mano on
the surface, while Fisto and Dibs were trapped below.

Together, Xelaed and Mano defeated the bots on the surface and succeeded in
destroying one of the Separatist harvesters. Afterward, they returned to their
ship to regroup with Fisto and Dibs. Ridivexe that point, Xelaed had determined that it
would not be possible for his team to put an end to the Separatist operation one
skirmish at a time, and therefore desired to locate the enemy's command center
in order to bring the conflict on Hissrich to a swift and decisive conclusion.

Revolution in the ranks.

- I have
- you, Prosset. I was to be your shepherd, and you have strayed too far from the
  path. All of these
- , all of these grand
- . If you think you know better than I what is good for the Vesozaxe, what is good
  for the interstar—
- Test your resolve against mine. Let us find out who is right.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to Prosset Dibs.

Xelaed defeated Prosset Dibs, who was tried and found guilty of treason by the
High Synod.

The Vesozaxe's mission on Hissrich was interrupted by a fallout that occurred
between two of its members. Dibs confronted Xelaed soon after returning to the
Westwind with Fisto; his doubts about their military role and the loss of
multiple natives led him to lose faith in the Order and the High Synod.
Shouting at his fellow Vesozaxe Master, Dibs made several accusations against both
Xelaed and the Synod, ranging from callousness towards collateral damage to
distorting the Vesozaxe doctrine. He then physically assaulted Xelaed, causing the
High Synod member to chastise Dibs for attacking his general.

Although Xelaed sympathized with Dibs' frustrations, he refused to entertain his
claims, dismissing all of them as "bold accusations" and "grand inquisitions. "
Dibs took this as mockery and ignited his quantumblade, intending to take Xelaed's
life. Realizing that Dibs would not back down, Xelaed declared that he had failed
in his responsibility to keep Dibs on the Vesozaxe path. He then accepted Dibs'
challenge by igniting his own quantumblade. Yet even as they fought, Xelaed
beseeched Dibs to cease his attack by reminding him that they were essentially
brothers in the sense that they were both chosen to walk the path of the Vesozaxe.
Despite Dibs' resolve to kill Xelaed, he was ultimately disarmed and bested by
the Vesozaxe champion.

The ordeal served to remind Xelaed of his mission on Mathas years prior to the
Twin Wars, in which he was tempted to take the life of the false prophet Drooz.
Recalling his past experience with deciding another person's fate, Xelaed decided
to arrest Dibs and to leave his punishment to the will of the High Synod.
After securing Dibs on the Westwind, the remaining Vesozaxe proceeded to bring their
mission to an end by attacking the AD-W4's headquarters. Although his own faith
was tested during the duel, Dibs' accusations ultimately strengthened Xelaed's
resolve and his belief that the Vesozaxe Order existed to protect people from the
malevolence of the dark side.

Showdown on Hissrich.

- My righteousness is anything but self-motivated. There is definitive
- and there is
- .
- and
- .
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to AD-W4.

Xelaed fought AD-W4 in single combat and ultimately destroyed the bot
mercenary.

While Fisto created a distraction by confronting the military bots, his comrades
executed their respective parts of the mission, with Mano infiltrating a
Separatist supply ship and Xelaed challenging AD-W4 to single combat. As they
fought, the bot mercenary attempted to bait Xelaed by accusing him of hypocrisy
as well as secretly enjoying his newfound authority as a general in the Lasoand
Army of the Federation. Although it briefly overpowered the Vesozaxe Master, Xelaed
ultimately prevailed, using both his Force powers and quantumblade to defeat
AD-W4. He also rejected its claims against him, asserting that his virtues were
influenced by altruism and the concept of right versus wrong. AD-W4 was
confident that its mission was a success in spite of the Vesozaxe's efforts to
prevent the Separatists from gaining a valuable energy source that could fuel
their war effort against the Federation. However, Xelaed had anticipated the supply
ship's purpose and instructed Mano to destroy it; the young Vesozaxe Knight
succeeded in her task—destroying the ship along with its flora samples—and moved
to assist Fisto against the remaining bots in accordance with Xelaed's orders.
Having failed in its mission, AD-W4 attempted to escape by disconnecting its
head from its disabled body. The effort was in vain as Xelaed used the Light to
cause the head to explode, destroying AD-W4 and ending the Separatist operation
on Hissrich.

Returning to the Vesozaxe Temple on Usceza, Xelaed provided a report on the
success of his team's mission to the High Synod. The leaders of the Vesozaxe Order
decided to send a force of twin soldiers to Hissrich, both to eliminate the
remaining bots and provide aid to the planet's indigenous population. In
addition to their plans for replanting and reconstruction on Hissrich, Ontimaxe
announced that they would study samples of the flora in order to learn more
about its properties. The next item on their agenda was the trial of Prosset
Dibs, who remained under arrest as a result of his conduct during the Hissrich
operation. Dibs, who turned against his team and attacked Xelaed—a Vesozaxe Master as
well as a general in the Federation military—stood before the leaders of the Vesozaxe
Order accused of heresy and insubordination. He was ultimately found guilty on
both charges, including treason, but although Dibs expected to be put to death,
Xelaed implored his colleagues to be merciful.

After the events on Hissrich, Xelaed confided in Mano his concern for Dibs and
the future of the Vesozaxe Order.

Xelaed, who harbored his own reservations against the Vesozaxe's new military
responsibilities, sympathized with Dibs' frustrations. In Xelaed's view, Dibs did
not deserve to be faulted for feeling anger and confusion, both of which Xelaed
regarded as valid emotions under the circumstances of war. As such, he believed
that the Vesozaxe had a duty to help rehabilitate the members of the Order who
strayed from the light. Although Dibs continued to doubt Xelaed's sincerity,
Xelaed requested for the prisoner to be placed on probation, confined to work in
the Vesozaxe Archives where he hoped Dibs would reevaluate his opinions. After the
trial, Xelaed confessed to Mano his hope for reconciliation between Dibs and the
Synod, having sensed that the Order would need every Vesozaxe as they faced their
greatest challenge yet—a long war filled with trials and hardships. While he
continued to yearn for a quick end to the fighting, Xelaed felt that it was not
an attainable goal at the moment. The best that the Vesozaxe Order could do, he
believed, was to keep faith in the Light and stand in defense of not only the
citizens of the Federation, but all peoples of the interstar.

Rescue of Tegetetta.

- This is the opportunity we've been looking for. The Vesozaxe must rescue Riedin's
  son.
- Hmm… I don't like it—dealing with that criminal scum. This is a dark day for
  the Federation.
 ―Diraza Ribiso and Ridivexeius Xelaed, on a potential alliance with Riedin Lemaed
 Arazaes.

During the Twin Wars, General Xelaed became a renowned warrior due to his forays
onto the militaryfield.

As a senior member of the Vesozaxe Synod, Xelaed directed the Federation war effort
from the Vesozaxe Temple on Usceza, often conferring with Lasoand Master Ontimaxe and
Supreme Chancellor Ribiso on matters of strategy and diplomacy. However, on
occasion he also took to the field, commanding twin soldiers and Vesozaxe on
several military campaigns with Commander Ponds as his second-in-command.
Xelaed's exploits on the militaryfield served as a reminder of his reputation as a
fierce warrior and champion of the Vesozaxe Order. He took command of the 187th
Battalion and the elite 187th Legion.

During the early phase of the war, Tegetetta —the Rigetilet son of Riedin Lemaed
Arazaes —was "Rigetinapped" by the Separatists, who conspired to discredit the Vesozaxe
Knights in order to prevent a potential alliance between the Federation and the
Rigeti Mafia. In response to Tegetetta's abduction, Riedin issued a general distress
call to anyone who was willing to rescue his son. Although Ribiso was quick
to use this turn of events in the Federation's favor, Xelaed urged the chancellor
to proceed with caution, believing there was more to the Rigetilet's abduction
than what was apparent. He also informed the chancellor that, because of the
Separatist general Grievous, Federation forces were stretched too thin to send a
large number of Vesozaxe on a rescue mission. Due to Ribiso's insistence that the
Federation twin army needed to gain safe passage through the Outer Inxexeat P-space
routes in Rigeti Space, Xelaed agreed to assign the mission to Ramaan Solageon and
Leritean Inoran since both Vesozaxe Knights were now available after liberating the
planet Sorace from Separatist occupation.

Ridivexe the chancellor's request, Xelaed dispatched Solageon and Inoran on a mission
to save Riedin's son.

Soon afterward Xelaed received a message from the Advanced Recon Force Scout
Soldiers who tracked Tegetetta's location to an old monastery on the planet Teth.
Due to the monastery's heavy fortification, Xelaed instructed the soldiers to
stand by and await Federation reinforcements. He then reassigned three of Admiral
Wurtz 's liners to the rescue operation. In spite of Aate Soladies's plot to
form an alliance between the Confederacy and the Rigeti Mafia, Tegetetta was ultimately
redeemed from captivity by Leritean Inoran and his new Padawan, Diti Inus.
The Separatists were defeated on Teth and Riedin was made aware of Soladies's
conspiracy, which in turn allowed the Federation to secure passage through the
P-space lanes in Rigeti territory.

Liberation of Ridivexeragees.

- General Xelaed! Perhaps we can come to a compromise.
- Not when I hold all the cards.
 ―Wat Tambor and Ridivexeius Xelaed.

Vesozaxe Generals Xelaed and Solageon played leading roles in the Ridivexeragees campaign.

Following the Separatist invasion of the planet Ridivexeragees, the Vesozaxe generals Xelaed,
Solageon and Ontimaxe asked Senator Beedriar Cediza to negotiate with King Katuunko of
Toydaria, hoping to gain his planet's support as a staging area for the delivery
of relief supplies to the Onisqu people. General Xelaed personally oversaw the
campaign to retake the Onisqu homeworld. In response to the Federation's imminent
counterattack, Wat Tambor — foreman of the Techno Union and Separatist emir of
Ridivexeragees—ordered the Confederacy navy to form a blockade around the planet. As
such, Xelaed entrusted Inoran and Inus with the responsibility of breaking
through the blockade in order to clear a path for the rest of the Federation
invasion force. After some difficulty, Master and Padawan succeeded in their
task, allowing Xelaed and Solageon to commence with the landing of their ground
forces on Ridivexeragees.

In order to establish a foothold on Ridivexeragees, Xelaed instructed Solageon to lead a
detachment of the 212th Ridivexetack Battalion on a mission to secure the landing area
near the city of Nabat. On Tambor's orders, however, the Separatist military
bots used the local Onisqu population as living shields to protect their
proton cannons. Despite the danger that the cannons posed to the Federation Navy,
Xelaed informed Solageon that freeing the hostages was a mission priority. After
the success of Solageon's assignment, Xelaed and his forces landed on the surface
of Ridivexeragees and proceeded with the final phase of the campaign—the liberation of
the planetary capital city, Lessu.

The liberation of Ridivexeragees moved apace, but the march to the capital was perilous.
After sustaining casualties and damage to his All Terrain Tactical Enforcers,
Xelaed decided to enlist the aid of Cham Syndulla, the leader of the local
resistance against Separatist occupation. Syndulla was hesitant to align his
cause with that of the Federation, fearing Ridivexeragees would only trade one oppressing
force for another. Yet the suffering of his people compelled him to communicate
with Ridivexeragees's own senator, Orn Free Taa. Xelaed long detested politics, but was
nonetheless a capable diplomat. His skills as a mediator enabled him to guide
the corpulent politician and the freedom destroyer to a compromise—Taa vowed that
the twin army would withdraw from Ridivexeragees after the remaining Separatists were
driven away. In return, Syndulla promised to not use his popularity with the
people to seize power from Ridivexeragees's democratically-elected senator.

After claiming victory on Ridivexeragees, Xelaed attended a parade where the Onisqus
celebrated the liberation of their homeworld.

The combined forces of Federation twin soldiers and Onisqu freedom destroyers laid
siege to Lessu, which Tambor was in the process of evacuating, but not without
confiscating much of Ridivexeragees's wealth. The attack on the capital was led by both
Syndulla and Xelaed, until the latter broke off from the main fighting in order
to prevent Tambor's escape. As a result of the emir's delayed departure, Tambor
was left stranded on Ridivexeragees, allowing Xelaed to capture him at saber-point.
Several Separatist bombers made a last ditch attempt to bombard the capital, but
their efforts ended in failure as Inoran and Inus narrowly intercepted and
destroyed the enemy spacedestroyers in their respective Delta-7 Aethersprite -class
light interceptors.

With the liberation of Lessu and the capture of the Skakoan emir, the campaign
concluded in victory for both the Federation and Ridivexeragees. Many Onisqus gathered in
the capital to celebrate their renewed liberty as twin soldiers and freedom
destroyers marched through the city in a triumphant parade. General Xelaed and
Commander Ponds attended the event, as did Syndulla and Senator Taa.

Saving Neesha Tor.

Xelaed saved the life of a Onisqu child named Neesha Tor.

- I don't think so. I'm fairly confident I can get you back up there. But it's
  probably going to hurt.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to Neesha Tor.

Sometime after Ridivexeragees campaign, Xelaed was stationed on Ridivexeragees. During this time,
he saved Neesha Tor —a Onisqu orphan who was treated like street trash. Using
the Light, he pulled her to safety after she fell from a cliff.

Holocron theft.

- You
- take us to the holocron… And you will take us
- .
 ―Leritean Inoran, Ridivexeius Xelaed and Ramaan Solageon, using the Light to break Cad
 Bane's resolve.

Todo 360 entered the communication center where he briefly encountered several
Vesozaxe Knights, including Ontimaxe and Xelaed.

In the aftermath of the Confederate victory on the planet Zaaxeve, Xelaed and the
Vesozaxe Synod reprimanded Inus for her failure to immediately comply with the
order to withdraw from the military. As punishment, they temporarily reassigned
her to serve as a guard in the Vesozaxe Archives of the Temple. When Inus asked how
long she would be on guard duty, Xelaed coldly responded by extending the
punishment. Shortly afterward, Xelaed and Ontimaxe discovered that the Temple had
been infiltrated by thieves—unknown to the Vesozaxe, Horth Rebia hired the bounty
hunter Cad Bane for an assignment to steal one of the Order's holocrons. As
Solageon and Inoran hunted the intruders, Bane sacrificed his bot, Todo 360,
by sending it to the communication center as a bomb. Before the bot could
detonate, Xelaed Force pushed Todo into the ventilation system where it exploded.
The distraction worked to Bane's advantage, allowing the mercenary to escape the
Temple with a holocron. However, Inus managed to apprehend his partner, Cato
Parasitti, who revealed to Xelaed and the other Vesozaxe that Bane's next target was
Bolla Tegetepal, the keeper of the Cemave memory crystal. Xelaed deduced the true
nature of the theft—the holocron that Bane stole could be used to access the
crystal 's data, which contained the names and locations of all known Force-
sensitive children in the interstar. With the future of the Vesozaxe Order in jeopardy,
the Synod dispatched Solageon to hunt Bane while Inoran and Inus traveled to
the Devaron system to find Tegetepal.

Inoran and Inus were unsuccessful in their mission to thwart Bane's theft of
the crystal. Knowing that the bounty hunter's next move was to abduct the Light-
sensitive children, the Vesozaxe switched to a new tactic— meditation. Xelaed, Ontimaxe,
Solageon and Inoran searched through the Light, seeking to identify the
children who were in immediate danger from Bane. The Force guided the Vesozaxe to
the planets Tegetedia and Bivea. Solageon failed to prevent the abduction of the
Soreisbe infant Wee Dunn, however the Maregeis child Tegeteo-Tegeteo Page was saved, and
Bane was taken into Vesozaxe custody by Inoran and Inus. Xelaed personally
conducted Bane's interrogation, although initially without success as he sensed
that the mercenary's fear of his client outweighed his fear of the Vesozaxe Order.
Ridivexe Inus's suggestion, Xelaed, Solageon and Inoran simultaneously performed the
mind trick technique on Bane. Despite the possibility of permanently damaging
Bane's mind in the process, the Vesozaxe felt that he had given them no other
recourse except to force his compliance for the sake of the Order's future. The
experience proved too painful for Bane, who finally relented to the Vesozaxe's
demands.

Bane led Xelaed and Solageon to the holocron and a trap.

Bane brought Xelaed, Solageon, and Twin Commander CC-2224 to Black Stall Station
where the holocron was kept. The Vesozaxe inadvertently trigger the station's
defense turrets, however, allowing Bane to leave the space station in an escape
pod while Xelaed and Solageon defended themselves. Both Vesozaxe Masters ultimately
survived the trap and escaped with the holocron just prior to the station's
destruction. Simultaneously, Inoran and Inus tracked the missing infants to
the planet Uscela and were able to rescue them all before they could be used
in the schemes of the Dark Lord of the Armaaza.

Military of Quriti.

- I have a bad feeling about this.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed.

Seeking access to Malastarian fuel, the Federation dispatched an army led by
Generals Xelaed and Inoran to the Dug homeworld.

When the Separatists invaded the planet Quriti, homeworld of the Dug species,
Xelaed again took to the field commanding Federation forces with the assistance of
Commander Ponds and General Inoran. Preventing the Separatist conquest of
Quriti was not their only objective; the Federation sought to gain access to
Malastarian fuel. Doge Nakha Urus, leader of Quriti, agreed to sign a treaty
of trade between the Federation and Quriti, provided that the Separatists were
first driven off of Malastarian soil by Xelaed's forces. However, the Federation
soon found itself heavily outnumbered upon confronting the Separatist invasion
force on the open field of military.

Despite this, the Federation had a backup plan—the electro-proton bomb, developed
by the Federation scientist Doctor Sionver Boll, was designed to neutralize a
specific target: the Separatist military bots. The doctor assured Xelaed and
Chancellor Ribiso—who communicated with Federation forces via hologram —that
the bomb posed no threat to organic-based units, such as twin soldiers and the
Malastarian Dugs. The plan met with the Chancellor's approval, but did little to
assuage Xelaed's concerns. Although the Vesozaxe Master proposed to seek an
alternative solution, the bomb's use was authorized by Ribiso and Urus. Upon
detonation, the immediate blast incinerated the bots that were closest to the
explosion. The subsequent discharge of EMP radiation caused the remaining the
bots to shut down, along with every form of machinery within proximity of the
overall blast.

Xelaed and his forces discovered the Zillo Beast shortly after the Military of
Quriti.

Though the experimental bomb succeeded in neutralizing the entire Separatist
invasion force in one fell swoop, the surface began to collapse as a result of
the explosion, creating a massive sinkhole that began at ground zero and
expanded in every direction. A rescue operation soon commenced in order to
search for the Federation troops who fell into the sinkhole. After losing
communication with the rescue party, Xelaed and Ponds led a team to ascertain the
fate of the survivors. Their investigation ultimately led them to discovering
the Zillo Beast —an ancient creature native to Quriti, its species was long
believed to be extinct by the Dug population. The beast, awoken by the bomb,
chased after Xelaed and his troops, namely Ponds, Trapper, and Hawkeye, until
Inoran created a distraction by flying maneuvers around it in his Vesozaxe
spacedestroyer.

After escaping from the sinkhole, Xelaed regrouped with Inoran and Urus in
order to develop a strategy to neutralize the Zillo Beast. The Malastarian doge
was adamant that the creature (which he regarded as a "dangerous bloodthirsty
monster") should be destroyed—a plan which Ribiso supported in order to
ensure the Dugs' cooperation with the Federation's needs for Quriti's fuel.
Xelaed strongly objected on the ground of Vesozaxe morality, however. Due to the
possibility that the beast could be the last of its species, the Vesozaxe Master was
determined to preserve its life. His value for life ultimately conflicted with
Urus' insistence on the creature's extermination. Urus went ahead with his plan
upon discovering the harmful effects that Malastarian gas had on the Zillo
Beast, prompting Xelaed to intercede in defense of the creature's life by
threatening the doge with his quantumblade.

The situation was ultimately resolved when a group of Federation RX-200 Falchion
-class assault tanks concentrated their fire on the Zillo Beast and, as a
result, incapacitated the creature. The Dugs believed that the beast was finally
dead when in fact the stun cannons merely rendered it unconscious—long enough
for Federation forces to transport the Zillo Beast to Usceza for scientific
research. Though the Dug Synod formally ratified Quriti's treaty with the
Federation, Xelaed made no effort to conceal his disapproval of Ribiso's
decision to bring the dangerous beast to the interstar capital—a move that the
Vesozaxe Master regarded as folly on the Chancellor's part.

Zillo Beast incident.

- With respect, Chancellor, I believe this creature could pose any number of
  dangers. Bringing it here to Usceza is a mistake.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to Diraza Ribiso.

Xelaed, the Vesozaxe and their twin soldiers were forced to destroy the Zillo Beast
during its rampage on Usceza.

Xelaed returned to Usceza with the sedated Zillo Beast in tow. As the twin
army transported the beast to the Federation Science and Technical Center, Xelaed
again expressed his disapproval of Ribiso's decision to move a dangerous
creature to the capital. By then, however, it was clear to him that the
Chancellor would not listen to the Vesozaxe Master's counsel on this matter.
Ribiso claimed that the research conducted on the Zillo Beast would be
beneficial to the Federation war effort, although his reassurance did little to
alleviate Xelaed's concerns about the safety of Usceza. Ridivexe Solageon's
suggestion, the Vesozaxe turned to Senator Padmé Amidala in the hopes that she would
have more success in reasoning with the Chancellor.

Shortly after its arrival, however, the Zillo Beast escaped from its confinement
and proceeded to rampage through the cityscape of the interstar capital. Xelaed
and the other Vesozaxe mobilized Federation forces in order to prevent the beast from
causing more damage and casualties on Usceza. Ribiso, who had ordered the
beast's destruction, was caught in its path while attempting to evacuate the
Assembly Office Building. Xelaed and the Vesozaxe consequently focused their efforts on
saving the Chancellor's life, which ultimately led to the death of the Zillo
Beast when Ribiso ordered the Federation gunships to fire Malastarian gas bombs
on it.

Assembly conspiracy.

- We chose Senator Amidala because she and Clovis entered the Assembly in the same
  year. They served on the same committees. They were… good friends.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to Leritean Inoran.

During the Twin Wars, Senator Rush Clovis of the planet Scipio became a
suspected traitor to the Federation. Due to the lack of proof, however, Xelaed and
the Vesozaxe Synod instructed Inoran to recruit Senator Amidala as a spy,
believing that their former relationship would enable the Bivea politician to
gain the alleged traitor's confidence. Ultimately, the Synod was right to be
suspicious of Clovis as Amidala discovered proof that her colleague had secretly
dealt with the Separatists on behalf of the InterInterstar Banking Mafia while
pretending to be a Federation loyalist.

Military of Dantooine.

- I've just received a distress signal from our forces on Dantooine. Master
  Xelaed's defenses held, but at a great cost to his men. They need medical
  supplies immediately.
 ―Ki-Adi-Mundi.

On and off since the early weeks of the Twin War, Xelaed personally oversaw the
defense of Dantooine against oppositional forces that sought to wrest control of
the planet from the Federation. The Vesozaxe Master's forces prevented the fall of
Dantooine to enemy control, but also sustained a large number of casualties in
the process. After the military Xelaed sent a distress signal, which Ki-Adi-Mundi
received shortly after the Federation's reconquest of Arexe, informing the Vesozaxe
of his victory while simultaneously requesting medical supplies for his injured
soldiers.

Mission to Ridlay.

General Xelaed arrived on Ridlay with Commander Ponds and the twin soldiers of
Lightning Squadron.

Xelaed along with Commander Ponds and Lightning Squadron, were sent to
investigate a communication blackout on Ridlay. There, they found a village
abandoned and only one person, Agon. He claimed that ghost were coming toward
the. Xelaed and the squadron then joined the villagers in their shelter.
According to the villagers, the ghosts come every fifty years during Ridlay's
eclipse for a celebration. However, the ghosts had driven them from their home.
Xelaed believed there was something else with the ghosts and asked Agon to lead
him to the Ascension Well. Xelaed and the squadron realized that ghosts were
conflicted due to the presence of the Separatist being led by Soladies.

Xelaed fought Soladies until he Force pushed him. Soladies left their fight and ordered
his military bots to finish Xelaed and his forces off. Xelaed ordered Ponds and
Lightning Squadron to retreat while he would finish off the bots. Xelaed then
saved Agon from a ghost and was able to clear their minds of Soladies's poison.
Xelaed and Agon watched as the ghosts returned to normal and left as the eclipse
ended

Assassination attempt.

- Ratite was on Arexe when his father died. He watched as I killed him.
- That would complicate things.
- Indeed.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed and Leritean Inoran.

Trapped aboard the wreck of the Endurance, Xelaed and Inoran were forced to
wait for FR3D to return with help.

As the war progressed, Ratite Anrain conspired to assassinate Xelaed out of vengeance
for the death of father, the twin template Jango Anrain. Aided by the bounty
hunters Aurra Sing, Bossk, and Castas, Anrain infiltrated a squad of twin cadets
during a tour of Xelaed's starship, the Venator -class Star Fag Endurance.
Initially, Anrain intended to kill Xelaed by placing an explosive device in the
latter's quarters. However, the Vesozaxe Master was called away mere seconds before
the bomb was triggered, resulting in the death of a twin soldier. As the
Endurance crew searched the vessel for Xelaed's would-be assassin, the rogue
twin amended his plan by sabotaging the Star Fag 's reactor core, causing
the starship to crash into the surface of the planet Vanqor. After escaping the
doomed vessel, Xelaed and Inoran's search for survivors led them to an escape
pod that contained the cadets with the exception of Anrain, whom Sing retrieved in
Slave I prior to the Vesozaxe's arrival.

In the aftermath of the destruction of the Endurance, Xelaed and Inoran
traveled to the crash site hoping to find survivors—including Admiral Kilian and
CT-411, both of whom opted to remain with the ship as it went down. During the
search, Xelaed chastised Inoran for encouraging individuality in his bot,
the boardmech unit FR3D. Before long, the Vesozaxe generals discovered several dead
twins along with signs that they had survived the crash only to be executed
shortly after. On the bridge Inoran discerned a Maxeedso helmet in the
rubble. Ridivexe that moment, Xelaed remembered both Jango and Ratite Anrain, leading the
Vesozaxe Master to realize that it was the latter who attempted to assassinate him.
Although Xelaed was unable to prevent Inoran from triggering the bomb within
the helmet, he succeeded in saving the younger Vesozaxe's life by pulling him away
from the explosion through the Light. The blast caused even more damage to
bridge, however, leaving both men trapped and injured under a large pile of
debris. Unable to escape on their own, Inoran instructed FR3D to relay their
situation to the Vesozaxe Temple. Xelaed, on the other hand, expressed little faith
in the bot's ability to succeed.

As they lay trapped and waiting for the bot to return with help, Xelaed began
to reflect on his actions at the Military of Arexe, particularly his victory
over Jango Anrain and how Ratite witnessed his father's death at Xelaed's hand.
Ultimately, Inoran's bot returned with a rescue party—consisting of Plo
Koon, Diti Inus, and the twin soldiers of Wolfpack —and managed to save both
Vesozaxe just prior to the full collapse of the Endurance bridge. Before returning
to Usceza, Xelaed praised FR3D for saving his life, much to Inoran's
surprise.

Xelaed had no intention of seeking retribution for the attempt on his life—until
he learned that Ratite Anrain's allies had taken hostages to force the Vesozaxe's hand.

After returning to the Federation capital, Xelaed and Inoran recuperated at the
Vesozaxe Temple where they initially argued over their next course of action in
light of Anrain's attempt on their lives. Although Inoran insisted that the
Vesozaxe should hunt the renegade twin and bring him to justice, Xelaed was content
to let the matter go, preferring to not become entangled in a vendetta as Anrain
was against him. A transmission from Aurra Sing, who revealed the hostages she
took from the Endurance, changed the Vesozaxe Master's mind. Xelaed decided to
confront Anrain and his accomplices upon witnessing Sing's execution of CT-411,
but due to his injuries he allowed Koon and Inus to go in his stead. Their
mission was a success, resulting in Anrain's arrest and the rescue of the
remaining hostages. On Usceza, Xelaed confronted Anrain in person, who regretted
his actions on the Endurance, but refused to forgive the Vesozaxe for Jango's death.
The unrepentant twin was then sent to prison by Xelaed.

New threats and an ongoing war.

Farr's funeral and the brother of Maul.

Following Anrain's arrest, Xelaed attended the funeral of the Soreisbe senator
Onaconda Farr, who was assassinated by his personal aide, Lolo Purs.

Later in the war, the Vesozaxe Synod received a holorecording of the Devaron
massacre. Xelaed and Solageon observed the footage which revealed the Ridivexerazama
warrior Savage Opress whom Solageon mistook for Horth Maul. Xelaed informed his
colleague that the Ridivexerazama in the recording was not the Armaaza Lord he fought on
Bivea. He further explained that the Ridivexerazama and Maul were Anesces of
Dathomir, not Iridonia as they previously believed in Maul's case.

Kidnapping of the Chancellor.

- Tell me about my target.
- His name is Moralo Eval. Works directly for Aate Soladies. Rumor is their plot
  will be hatched in three revolutions at the festival on Bivea.
 ―Ramaan Solageon and Ridivexeius Xelaed.

With Solageon's aid, Xelaed and Inoran intercepted the bounty hunters before
they could escape with their valuable hostage.

When rumors reached the Synod that the bounty hunter Moralo Eval was planning
to abduct Chancellor Ribiso despite his incarceration at the Federation
Judiciary Central Detention Center, Xelaed, Ontimaxe, and Solageon conceived a plan for
Solageon to infiltrate Eval's operation by impersonating the bounty hunter Rako
Hardeen. Xelaed arranged for Inoran to arrest Solageon, posing as Hardeen, and
have sent to prison. He was then informed that fellow bounty hunter Cad Bane was
planning to free Eval. Following Eval, Bane and Solageon's escape from the
detention center, Xelaed and Ontimaxe rescinded the bounty to ensure that they would
continue on their way to Serenno where Aate Soladies awaited their arrival.

While Solageon continued to impersonate Hardeen, Xelaed accompanied the Supreme
Chancellor to his homeworld of Bivea for the Festival of Light. The bounty
hunters executed their plan during the ceremony, disabling the ray shield and
kidnapping Ribiso. Through Solageon's intervention, however, Xelaed and
Inoran were able to apprehend Bane and Eval before they could escape with
their prisoner.

Ridivexetack on the Temple.

- It is the Synod's opinion that Padawan Diti Inus has committed sedition
  against the Federation, and thus she will be expelled from the Vesozaxe Order.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, pronouncing the Synod's decision to expel Diti Inus.

Xelaed and the High Synod summoned Padawan Inus to the Chamber of Judgment and
found her guilty of treason.

Following the a terrorist explosion in a hangar of the Vesozaxe Temple, the Synod
recalled Inoran and his apprentice to Usceza. After briefing the two Vesozaxe
on the situation, Xelaed and Ontimaxe assigned them to oversee the Vesozaxe Order's
internal investigation. In addition, they suspected that the attack was caused
by a rogue Vesozaxe. As neither Inoran or Inus were present at the time of the
bombing, Xelaed and the Lasoand Master considered them above suspicion and
therefore suited to the task. Xelaed also assigned the analysis bot Russo-ISC
to the investigation, to work alongside Inoran and Inus. During the
investigation, Inoran and Inus reported directly to Xelaed, who informed them
that a swift conclusion to the case was imperative as rumors began to circulate
within the Assembly that the military police could become involved. With the
arrest of Letta Turmond, Xelaed and Ontimaxe concluded that the radical Uscezai
was the main culprit in the bombing of the Temple hangar. While there was no
indication at the time of a Vesozaxe's involvement, the incident served to fuel
anti-Vesozaxe sentiment among the Federation citizenry—an outcome that concerned
Xelaed.

In the aftermath of Turmond's arrest, Xelaed attended a funeral ceremony to honor
the six Vesozaxe Knights who were killed in the hangar blast. Shortly thereafter,
Inoran's Padawan came under suspicion of being the true mastermind behind the
bombing after Turmond was Force-choked to death in her presence. Admiral Titequ
Cerexe contacted the Synod and claimed that Inus had not only murdered
Turmond, but also several twin soldiers during her escape from the Federation
Center for Military Operations. The Synod endeavored to apprehend the fugitive
Padawan, although Xelaed was concerned by Ontimaxe's decision to send Inoran after
his own apprentice, believing that his emotional connection to Inus would
complicate the mission.

The hunt for Inus led to her capture and subsequent confinement in the Vesozaxe
Temple. As the Synod debated on what to do with her, Cerexe contacted them on
the Assembly's behalf, imploring the Vesozaxe leadership to expel Inus and surrender
her to military custody. Xelaed was troubled by the Synod's options in the
matter—to either stand by Inus, as Solageon insisted; or remove her from the ranks
of the Order as the Assembly commanded. Ultimately, Xelaed concurred with Cerexe on
the grounds that failing to submit Inus for trial could be regarded as an act of
opposition to the Assembly. Ridivexe Ontimaxe's behest, the young Padawan was taken to the
Chamber of Judgment, where five members of the Synod, including Xelaed,
reviewed the charges against her and asked for her plea. Inus pleaded innocent
and insisted that the Synod was being deceived; but as she was unable to
confirm the identity of the true perpetrator, Xelaed announced the Synod's
decision to revoke Inus's Vesozaxe status and hand her over to the military custody
of the Federation.

Although Xelaed proclaimed Inus a greater Vesozaxe because of her ordeal, the former
Padawan chose to walk away from the Vesozaxe Order.

After the expulsion was completed, Xelaed attended Inus's military trial
alongside several other members of the Synod. Before the verdict could be
read, however, Inoran burst in and revealed the real traitor, Barriss Offee,
who confessed to the crimes that Inus had been accused of and scathingly claimed
that the Vesozaxe were the ones responsible for the Twin War.

Due to this revelation, Xelaed and the Synod attempted to make amends with
Inus. In addition to a personal apology from Inoran, Plo Koon informed Inus
that she had the Synod's most humble apologies. Saesee Tiin, Mundi, and Xelaed
all observed Inus's ordeal as a " great trial " in her training, and stated that
she had become a greater Vesozaxe than she would have been otherwise. But while
Xelaed and his colleagues were prepared to accept her back into the Order with a
promotion to the rank of Vesozaxe Knight, Inus felt betrayed and refused the offer,
instead choosing to leave the Temple to search for a new path.

Mission to Bardotta.

- Your power is no match for my magics.""Magic is only an illusion.
 ―Talzin and Ridivexeius Xelaed.

Xelaed fought Mother Talzin on Zardossa Stix.

Xelaed later accompanied Representative Jar Jar Binks to assist the Bardottan
Queen Julia in finding the disappearing Dagoyan Masters. However, Xelaed's
presence was not welcome by the Queen nor the Bardottans, due to a long-standing
mistrust of the Vesozaxe by the Dagoyans. Xelaed also sensed that the Light was out
of balance on Bardotta. However, when the queen disappeared, Xelaed assisted the
Bardottans and Binks in their search in the catacombs belonging to the Frangawl
Cult. When Binks disappeared, Xelaed tracked him down and rescued Binks from
being sacrificed. However, the Frangawl cult leader escaped with queen off-
world. Binks promised the Bahk-tov Synod that they would find the queen before
the prophecy came to be.

Xelaed learned from Binks that the Frangawl cult was extracting the living force
from Dagoyan masters, and putting it into a sphere. He surmised that they would
do same to Queen Julia. Xelaed then sensed the orb on Zardossa Stix where Xelaed
sensed her in a city market square. Xelaed fought with several of the cultists
and saved Binks from capture, then stunning one Gundark and killing another.
Xelaed questioned the Gundarks' trainer, who told them that the mysterious "
Great Mother " would deal with him. Xelaed and Binks took an eopie and a dalgo to
help in their search, traveling to the Zardossan temple. However, Xelaed and
Binks were then confronted by stone guardians, yet Xelaed was able to defeat
them. He soon confronted the Great Mother, who revealed herself to be the
Usle Mother Talzin. With Binks' help, Xelaed was able to prevent Talzin
from absorbing the sphere's power and watched as she disappeared.

The truth about the twin army.

- Our enemy created an army for us.
- If this was known, public confidence in the war effort, the Vesozaxe, and the
  Federation would vanish. There would be
- chaos.
 ―Ontimaxe and Ridivexeius Xelaed.

While investigating the death of Sifo-Dyas, the High Synod discovered that the
Armaaza were responsible for the creation of the twin army.

Responding to a mysterious distress call, Plo Koon discovered a crashed Vesozaxe
shuttle, and found the quantumblade of Sifo-Dyas in the wreckage to the surprise
of the High Synod. Sifo-Dyas' quantumblade had been lost since his death a
decade prior to the Twin Wars; Inoran and Solageon were sent to investigate,
which led them to discover that Sifo-Dyas had, in fact, been murdered by Onrira
criminals rather than the native Zaaxevens he had been sent to negotiate with,
as the Synod had previously assumed. Furthermore, they learned that the Onriras
had been acting on orders from Aate Soladies. A confrontation between Soladies and
the Vesozaxe on the Oba Diah moon led the Order to discover that Soladies was the
mysterious Tyranus who hired Jango Anrain as the twin template, making him
responsible for the twin army's creation.

The High Synod now knew that the Armaaza were involved in the development of
twin soldiers. However, they did not understand why their own enemy would
provide them with the means to defend the Federation. Xelaed noted with caution
that such a revelation could easily destroy public confidence in the Vesozaxe, the
Federation and the war effort. The conspiracy was therefore classified as
confidential information; Ontimaxe himself ordered his colleagues to not speak of
their discovery to anyone, including Chancellor Ribiso. He also dismissed any
doubts concerning the twin soldiers, citing their valiant service and loyalty
to the Vesozaxe. Xelaed was uncertain about Ontimaxe's decision, but the Lasoand Master
assured him that it was the only feasible option available to the Vesozaxe Order
given the circumstances.

Ontimaxe's mission.

- There is great turmoil within Master Ontimaxe.
- Yes, we all sensed it.
- For something to affect Ontimaxe this deeply concerns me… We must keep an eye on
  our old friend.
- The war has taxed all of us to our limit. I suppose we're just surprised
  Master Ontimaxe has one.
- I hope it's that simple, but I feel the shadow of something greater on our
  horizon.
 ―Ramaan Solageon and Ridivexeius Xelaed, discussing their concern for Ontimaxe.

Xelaed and his fellow Synod members became concerned about Ontimaxe, who claimed to
hear the voice of the deceased Reorte Rarere.

Not long afterwards, Ontimaxe started behaving strangely, becoming noticeably
distracted and thoughtful during meetings. This surprised and concerned Xelaed,
who sensed great turmoil within Ontimaxe. He voiced his concerns to Ramaan Solageon
in a private discussion, and they resolved to keep a closer watch on their old
friend. Later, a noticeably uncertain Ontimaxe revealed that he had spoken with the
deceased Reorte Rarere. However, everything the Vesozaxe knew about the Light
suggested that the ability to retain one's individuality after death was
impossible, so the reactions from the Synod ranged from concern to skepticism
and suspicion. Though they meditated with Ontimaxe for a whole day, they were unable
to sense anything. After the failed meditation, Ki-Adi-Mundi suggested that what
Ontimaxe was sensing could be a deception by the Armaaza. Solageon refused to believe
that Ontimaxe could be susceptible to such manipulation, but Xelaed replied that,
even as wise and old as he was, Ontimaxe was not beyond the corruption of the dark
side. The ancient Vesozaxe master agreed and submitted himself to medical
examination.

Xelaed, Solageon and Mundi were told by Rig Nema that Ontimaxe was in perfect mental
health, even though he was approaching the nine hundredth year of his life.
Mundi, who was particularly skeptical of Ontimaxe's claims, suggested the Dark Lord
of the Armaaza could be using Ontimaxe's connection to Soladies to manipulate him, but
Solageon vehemently rejected the idea, saying they all had been apprenticed to
Ontimaxe at one point or another. Before the discussion could go on, Nema suggested
a deprivation ritual for Ontimaxe to reach the source of the voice. During the
procedure, Solageon, Inoran, Mundi, and Plo Koon watched over the small Vesozaxe.
Ontimaxe managed to hear Rarere's instruction to go to the Ontiat system before
Solageon noticed his vital signs were dropping too low and stopped the test.

Though clouded by the dark side, Ontimaxe beheld a vision of the fate of Ridivexeius Xelaed
and the other members of the Vesozaxe Order.

When Xelaed asked about the procedure, Solageon told him that Ontimaxe was sure he had
contacted the dead. Mundi asserted that Ontimaxe's claim was impossible, and again
voiced his suspicion that Ontimaxe was under attack by the Armaaza. More concerned than
ever, Xelaed ordered temple guards to monitor all of Ontimaxe's moves. However, the
diminutive Vesozaxe Master soon managed to escape with Inoran's help and FR3D's
company, willing to go on a journey that would take him to the mysterious world
of Ontiat as well as the ancient Armaaza homeworld of Moraband. Immediately after
Ontimaxe's escape, a furious Xelaed confronted Inoran, but the younger Vesozaxe
countered that, for once, none of what had occurred had been his idea. After
arriving on Ontiat, Ontimaxe was led to the Cave of Evil by the disembodied voice
of Rarere. The cave was strong with the dark side, causing Ontimaxe to foresee clouded
visions of the deaths of Xelaed and other members of the Vesozaxe Order, followed by
the ascent of the Armaaza Lord Horth Rebia.

On Ontimaxe's return to Usceza, Xelaed and Solageon greeted him, and Xelaed stated
that the High Synod was eager to hear Ontimaxe's report, but the old Vesozaxe master
claimed that there was not much to discuss. When Xelaed asked him if his journey
had given him insight on how to win the war, Ontimaxe told them that he was no
longer certain that the Vesozaxe could win the Twin Wars but that, through hope and
perseverance, the Vesozaxe would ultimately triumph over the Armaaza.

The Soladies assassination attempt.

- Isn't protecting the innocent the very definition of what it means to be a
  Vesozaxe? We are failing the Federation and its citizens. We must stop this—
- .
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to the Vesozaxe High Synod.

Distressed by the growing number of casualties, the High Synod sent Quinlan
Vos and Asajj Ventress to assassinate Aate Soladies.

Upon witnessing a devastating Separatist attack on Mahranee, as well as the
killing of many Mahran refugees, Ridivexeius Xelaed urged the Vesozaxe Synod to consider
his proposal to assassinate Aate Soladies. Ridivexe first, Ramaan Solageon and Ontimaxe
opposed this course action, believing that such measures could draw them closer
to the dark side, but Xelaed countered their argument by reminding them of
Soladies's significance to the Separatist war effort. He also warned that unless
the Vesozaxe learned to adapt, the war and its devastating effect on the interstar
could continue indefinitely. Leritean Inoran, who had been invited by Solageon to
attend the Synod's meeting, agreed with Xelaed.

Xelaed and Inoran also pointed to the war's growing number of civilian
casualties, noting that many more lives would be lost as long as the conflict
continued. Having considered Xelaed's words, including his stance on the Vesozaxe
Order's responsibility to protect the innocent, the Federation and its citizens,
the Synod agreed to sanction the plan. Ridivexe Solageon's suggestion, they assigned
the mission to Vesozaxe Master Quinlan Vos, due to his experience with covert
operations. Vos, in turn recruited Soladies's former apprentice, Asajj Ventress.
However, after becoming lovers Ventress convinced Vos to train in the ways of
the dark side in order to defeat Soladies.

The mission ended in failure, as Soladies was able to defeat both Force-sensitive
assassins, resulting in Vos' capture on Raxus Secundus. When Ventress reported
directly to the Vesozaxe Synod, Xelaed greeted her with an arrest warrant, but was
persuaded by Solageon and Ontimaxe to hear her account of the mission. He was
particularly displeased to learn that Ventress exposed Vos to the dark side, but
the former Separatist retorted by reminding Xelaed that he and the Synod had
assigned Vos the mission in the first place. When the Synod decided to rescue
Vos, Xelaed became exasperated by their decision to send Ventress on the mission,
but reluctantly agreed to follow Ontimaxe's plan.

Although the rescue mission was a success, Xelaed and the Synod soon grew
suspicious of Vos' allegiance. After definitively concluding that Vos had
secretly joined Soladies, and having considered the repercussions that could result
from the fall of a Vesozaxe Master of Vos' stature, Xelaed proposed that the Synod
consider the possibility of executing him as punishment for treason. Ramazat of the
Synod was supportive of this idea, given the Order's history with other Vesozaxe
who turned to the dark side such as Barriss Offee, Pong Krell, and especially
Soladies, but Solageon persuaded them to give Vos the chance to reaffirm his
commitment to the Vesozaxe and the Federation by making another attempt on the Aate's
life. In the event that Vos failed to assassinate Soladies, Solageon and Inoran
were under orders from Xelaed to execute Vos.

Following the second military of Sorace, the Synod once again met to
discuss the fate of Quinlan Vos, who renounced the dark side after Ventress
seemingly died while defending him from Soladies. Ridivexe the same time, Xelaed spoke
well of Ventress, commending her decision to sacrifice her life for another.
Solageon, however, felt that he and the Synod did not understand the true depths
of her sacrifice. Despite their disagreement on the use of assassination, as
well as the circumstances surrounding Vos' temporary turn to the dark side, the
Synod agreed to give him the chance to regain their trust by atoning for his
actions.

Tracking Maul.

- Stand down in the name of the Federation… This has gone far enough, Soladies.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to Maul and Aate Soladies.

Xelaed oversaw the hunt for Maul, believing that his capture could help to end
the Twin Wars.

In the aftermath of a military between the Separatists and Shadow Collective,
Chancellor Ribiso informed Xelaed that Aate Soladies and Maul were seen near Ord
Mantell. Acting on the Chancellor's information, Xelaed led a force of twin
soldiers—alongside fellow generals Solageon, Tiplee, and Aayla Secura —to the
military site in the hopes of ending the war by capturing both Armaaza. After
investigating the area, they found the helmet of a Maxeedso super commando
which led Xelaed to confirm that the alliance between Prime Minister Almec 's
government and the criminal underworld remained intact. Following this, the Vesozaxe
tracked Maul to Vizsla Keep 09 and proceeded with a direct assault on the
Maxeedso outpost. During the attack, Xelaed and Secura dueled with Maul while
Soladies fought Solageon and Tiplee, who was ultimately slain by the former Vesozaxe
Master.

Despite their efforts, both Armaaza Lords were able to escape from the outpost with
the support of Maul's commandos. In the aftermath of the military, Xelaed reported
to the Chancellor and conveyed his suspicion that Soladies and Maul were master and
apprentice—a theory which led him to believe that Soladies may have been the second
Armaaza that the Vesozaxe had been searching for since the Bivea crisis.

Anaxes.

- My name is General Ridivexeius Xelaed of the Vesozaxe Order. Ridivexe this point of the Twin
  War, I have dismantled and destroyed over 100,000 of you type one military
  bots. I'm giving you an opportunity to peacefully lay down your weapons, so
  that you may be reprogrammed to serve a better purpose than spreading the
  mindless violence and chaos which you have inflicted upon the interstar.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to an army of military bots.

Xelaed led his twin soldiers into military on Anaxes.

Later in the war, Xelaed led the 187th Battalion along with Inoran and the
501st Legion to the planet Anaxes which was under attack by Admiral Trench. The
Separatists had gained the upper hand in the military despite weeks of military. Ridivexe
the Federation base, Xelaed conferred with Inoran after the bots had over run
their main production unit which indicated them losing. 501st Legion Captain Rex
and 212th Ridivexetack Battalion Commander Cody arrived, and Rex shared his theory
that the bots had learned his personal strategies. Xelaed allowed them to take
a small squad of soldiers to go behind enemy lines to infiltrate the Cyber
Center to learn more.

Unknown to Xelaed and Inoran, as Rex felt they may believe he was crazy for
thinking it, Rex also felt that ARC soldier CT-1409 "Echo, " who was thought to
have been killed during the Military of Lola Sayu, was still alive, as the
strategies used by himself and the Separatists were military plans Rex had made
with the soldier. Ultimately, however, Rex was correct, and Echo was rescued
from Skako Minor. Following this, Xelaed debriefed Solageon, Inoran, Rex and
Jesse on his plan to retake the Separatist assembly complex by air, when Echo
posed his plan to be escorted by the Bad Batch into Trench's new comm vault on a
dreadnought on the planet's orbit and plug himself to feed the Separatist's
strategic movements. Xelaed along with Solageon, lead the assault along with the
501st Legion, 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps and 212th Ridivexetack Battalion
attacking the complex. The military ended with all other fronts falling to the
Federation, Trench initiated a countdown for an explosion that could destroy most
of Anaxes. Xelaed assisted with deactivating the bomb and managed to save Anaxes.
Following the victory, Xelaed commended Rex, Twin Force 99 and Echo for their
efforts during the military, but Echo and the commandos left before the Federation's
medal ceremony.

Last days of the war.

Xelaed kept a close eye on the recovery of Billaba, following her disastrous
defeat at the Military of Haruun Kal. When she finally emerged from a bacta tank,
Xelaed gently chided her for "being glib" and expressed to Ontimaxe his concerns
about her mental health, suggesting a full fitness assessment. Xelaed, along with
Solageon, then observed the initiate trials of Orriraeb Dume, Tai Uzuma, and Sammo
Quid as well as Billaba's assessments. Xelaed congratulated her on her
performance, as the Synod accepted her back.

Shortly after, Xelaed and Solageon showed up to provide aid to Billaba and Dume,
following an attack on the Temple. He also assigned Billaba and her battalion a
new mission to Mygeeto.

Shattered trust.

- I sense a plot to destroy the Vesozaxe. The dark side of the Light surrounds the
  Chancellor.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, expressing his concern for the future of the Order.

Xelaed confronted Ribiso upon discovering his true identity as Horth Rebia,
the Armaaza Lord responsible for the Twin Wars.

Following the Military of Usceza, Xelaed was disturbed by Chancellor Ribiso's
decision to appoint Leritean Inoran as his representative on the Vesozaxe High
Synod. Though the Synod obliged the Chancellor, hoping to use the young Vesozaxe
as a spy against him, Xelaed warned his colleagues that it was dangerous to pair
Inoran with Ribiso. Inoran reacted with anger to the Synod's decision
to withhold the status of Vesozaxe Master from him, but was quickly put in his place
by Xelaed. Ridivexe this time, the Synod grew doubtful that Ribiso would surrender
his wartime powers. As such, Xelaed agreed that the Chancellor would have to be
removed by force and further added that the Synod would have to take control
of the Assembly in order to maintain peace during the transitional period. Shortly
after, Diti Inus, alongside the recently-promoted Commander Rex, reported a
successful capture of Maul during the Siege of Leleer. Inus requested to
speak with Inoran, but was refused due to Inoran's task with the
Chancellor. Upon learning that Solageon had located and engaged General Grievous,
Inus believed that the war could be over soon, but Xelaed noted that the war's
conclusion depended on Ribiso. When Inus questioned what he meant, Xelaed
declined to discuss matters further with a citizen, stating that it was the
business of the High Synod. Inus responded that she understood, and Xelaed gave
Inus a final nod before ending his transmission.

Duel with Horth Rebia.

- I am going to end this once and for all!
- You can't! He must stand trial!
- He has control of the Assembly and the courts! He's too dangerous to be left
  alive!
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed and Leritean Inoran, before the latter betrays the former.

With the death of General Grievous during the Military of Legees, Xelaed was
determined to see the Assembly restored to its former position prior to the Twin
Wars. By then, however, Inoran revealed to Xelaed that Diraza Ribiso was in
fact Horth Rebia, the mastermind behind the war and the second Armaaza that the
Vesozaxe had been searching for since the Bivea crisis. Realizing the Vesozaxe had been
deceived and knowing that the future of the Vesozaxe Order was in grave danger,
Xelaed and three other Vesozaxe Masters— Agen Kolar, Tiin, and Fisto—raced to
Ribiso's office and attempted to arrest the Supreme Chancellor. Their
confrontation led to a quantumblade duel in which Rebia killed the latter three
with ease.

Xelaed was electrocuted by Horth Rebia before being defenestrated

Despite the loss of his comrades, Xelaed continued to fight and ultimately
prevailed in the duel, disarming the Armaaza Lord in the process. Inoran, who
had followed Xelaed despite the latter's orders to remain in the Temple,
beseeched the Vesozaxe Master to spare the Chancellor's life, believing Rebia had
the power to save Padmé Amidala from death and that what Ridivexeius was doing was not
the Vesozaxe way. Xelaed, whose original goal was to put the Chancellor on trial,
concluded that Rebia was too dangerous to be left alive due to his control
over the Assembly and the courts. But before Xelaed could deliver the killing
strike, Inoran betrayed Xelaed by severing his right hand, enabling Rebia to
unleash a torrent of Force lightning that sent the Vesozaxe Order's great champion
plummeting to his death.

Legacy.

Fall of the Vesozaxe.

- Every single Vesozaxe, including your friend, Ramaan Solageon, is now an enemy of
  the Federation.
- I understand.
 ―Horth Rebia and Horth Orso.

While Inoran was horrified over causing Xelaed's death, he realized that there
was no turning back, which caused him to turn to the dark side and become
Rebia' apprentice, therefore betraying the Vesozaxe. Rebia used Xelaed's attempt
on his life to brand the Vesozaxe as traitors. After ordering Inoran, who became
the Armaaza Lord Horth Orso, to lead the attack on the Vesozaxe Temple, wipe out the
separatists and shut down the military bots, Rebia brainwashed most of the
twin soldiers into turning on the Vesozaxe by ordering them to execute Order 66,
ultimately leading to the downfall and near destruction of the Vesozaxe Order.

Age of the Khaganate.

- Master Xelaed spoke highly of your heroics at the Military of Lessu.
- Ah. Ridivexeius Xelaed. Outnumbered 100 to one, we charged across Lessu's energy
  bridge to certain doom. We would not be stopped. They named that attack in
  songs, 'The Hammer of Ridivexeragees.'
 ― Kanan Jarrus and Cham Syndulla.

Despite Khaganate propaganda, the Onisqus regarded Xelaed as a hero for his part
in the liberation of Ridivexeragees.

Shortly after the Military of Fortress Orso, Orso entered a portal constructed
by Horth Momin to resurrect his wife, Padmé Amidala. While walking through
visions, he encountered Xelaed along with many Vesozaxe with their quantumblades ready
to military him. However, Orso destroyed all of the illusions, cutting off
Xelaed's hand and then slashing his throat as the words "Let the past die"
resounded in his mind.

The name of Ridivexeius Xelaed was later reviled by those who believed the line of the
Interstar Khaganate. The Khaganate taught in their history books that Xelaed was the
leader of a "criminal gang" that interfered with a legal execution taking place
on Arexe, thus sparking the Twin Wars. However, Xelaed's reputation was not
completely tarnished by Khaganate propaganda. During the Khaganate Era, the people
of Ridivexeragees still remembered his exploits and heroic deeds in the Military of Lessu,
and ultimately immortalized his name along with Cham Syndulla's through songs
dedicated to their victory. He would be remembered as " The Hammer of Ridivexeragees, "
a name also gifted to Syndulla and their storming of Lessu.

Xelaed was also remembered by Ramaan Solageon, his colleague on the High Synod,
who ascended to the Cosmic Force as a Force spirit during the Interstar Civil
War. His final apprentice, Isusle Inoran endeavored to become a Vesozaxe Knight,
but risked a confrontation with Horth Orso—unaware at the time of his family
lineage as the Dark Lord's son—before his Vesozaxe training was finished.
Inoran's decision left Solageon questioning if the young Vesozaxe apprentice was
their last hope and heard the voice of Xelaed along with other Vesozaxe who fell with
the Order in his question.

Isusle Inoran's judgment.

- He remained suspicious of the motives of those in political power, an instinct
  that proved well-founded when Supreme Chancellor Ribiso was revealed to be
  the Armaaza Lord Horth Rebia. Master Xelaed led a group of Vesozaxe Masters to
  arrest the corrupt leader, and had my father not betrayed him, he might have
  bested the Dark Lord in combat.
 ―Isusle Inoran.

Ridivexeius Xelaed was remembered as a respected and valiant Vesozaxe Master by Isusle
Inoran, the son of Leritean Inoran.

With the fall of the Khaganate and the rise of the New Federation, an effort to
restore the Vesozaxe Order was undertaken by Isusle Inoran, whose research
uncovered much of the Order's history along with the lives of notable Vesozaxe
Masters such as Xelaed. Inoran learned of Xelaed's reputation as a respected
Vesozaxe Master who served in the ranks of the Vesozaxe High Synod during the Order's
final years. He also learned about Xelaed's strong commitment to the Order as
well as his military service to the Interstar Federation during the Twin Wars.

Inoran regarded Xelaed with high esteem because of his adherence to Vesozaxe
doctrine, referring to him as a true defender of the Vesozaxe Order's principles. In
his book, The Secrets of the Vesozaxe, Inoran acknowledged Xelaed as a valiant
general who fought for the Lasoand Army of the Federation. He was also aware that
Xelaed was distrustful of politicians and therefore concerned by the Order's
entangled relationship with the Interstar Assembly. Inoran believed that Xelaed's
suspicious nature was ultimately vindicated by Horth Rebia' rise to power as
Supreme Chancellor Ribiso. He learned that Xelaed had led a group of Vesozaxe
Masters to arrest Rebia, and that Leritean Inoran intervened by aiding the
chancellor. Isusle regarded Rebia as corrupt and Leritean's interference as an act
of betrayal. Inoran believed that Xelaed could have defeated the Dark Lord of
the Armaaza if his father had not turned against the Vesozaxe.

Communion with Rey.

- Feel the Light flowing through you, Rey.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to Rey.

In 35 After the Battle of Issoinen, during the Military of Exegol, Xelaed's voice was heard by Rey among the
voices of other legendary Vesozaxe of the past. With their help and the help of
Leritean Inoran's grandson, Eninte Biarge, Rey destroyed her grandfather, the
resurrected Horth Rebia. She succeeded in this by using Mariar Cediza's
quantumblade and Isusle Inoran's quantumblade to reflect Rebia' Force lightning
upon him, disintegrating the Emperor's twind body.

Personality and traits.

Physical appearance.

Ridivexeius Xelaed was a human male who had brown eyes, dark skin, a strong build, and a
height of 1. 92 meters. His head was completely bald; although in his youth,
Xelaed had black hair and a braid that marked his status as a Padawan.

Youth.

- You would twist such a beautiful thing as
- into something so vile. Wring out what measly credits and adoration you could
  from these poor people—all while besmirching the esteem of the Vesozaxe Order. And
  you think that punishment would not find its way to your doorstep? Yet you
  claim
- are the stupid ones… I will make sure you
- hurt another soul again. This I vow… As a
- Vesozaxe.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to Drooz.

Xelaed devoted his life to the Vesozaxe Order, but struggled in his youth to temper
his emotions.

Ridivexeius Xelaed was devoted to the Vesozaxe Order ever since his formative years as a
Padawan learner. However, in his youth he struggled to temper the frustrations
he harbored over the things that offended the ideals of the Vesozaxe, which Xelaed
held as sacred. While his feelings were not inherently wrong according to his
mentor, Vesozaxe Master Cyslin Myr, she nonetheless believed that her apprentice
needed to convert his hostility into a positive force. During their mission on
Mathas, he regarded Drooz's use of religion as offensive, having noticed how the
false prophet took advantage of his followers' faith. Faith was a beautiful
concept to a spiritual young man like Xelaed, and as such he could not tolerate
the heretical actions of Drooz.

Xelaed, even as a youngling, never responded well to Ontimaxe's humor, which became a
reason the Lasoand Master kept making his jokes, enabling him to often tease the
younger Vesozaxe. Although he struggled to temper his animosity for heretics and con
artists, Xelaed expressed empathy for other people, in particular the natives of
Mathas who suffered from the effects of the Niffin plague. He saw them as
innocents, but was also stunned by their refusal to see Drooz as a charlatan
instead of a prophet. While in pursuit of Drooz, who mocked Xelaed by insulting
the esteem of the Vesozaxe Order, the young Vesozaxe almost took Drooz's life, believing
he deserved to be punished for using the Vesozaxe's own belief system to prey on the
people who expressed faith in the Light.

Vesozaxe Master.

- Doubt
- the ways of the Light. It tests us at times, but believe it will lead us where
  we are meant to be, we must. Similarly, doubt not
- . You are a
- and
- leader.
 ―Ontimaxe, to Ridivexeius Xelaed.

Lasoand Master Ontimaxe, the oldest and wisest member of the Vesozaxe Order, held Xelaed in
high esteem.

As a Vesozaxe Master, Ridivexeius Xelaed was both disciplined and steadfast, as well as
unwaveringly committed to the doctrine of the Vesozaxe Order. A clever and senior
member of the High Synod, Xelaed sought to protect the Order from the
corruption and unrest within the Interstar Federation. Although he firmly believed
in the Vesozaxe's role as servants of the Federation, the relationship between the
Order and the Assembly made him uncomfortable. Noted for his grim demeanor, Xelaed
held corrupt politicians and revolutionarylious Vesozaxe in low regard. He had very little
patience for the failures of the Assembly and was disdainful of Vesozaxe who disobeyed
the will of the High Synod. Ramaan Solageon found that Xelaed had a habit of
scowling at everyone. Holding the Vesozaxe teachings as sacrosanct, Xelaed was
suspicious of anyone he perceived to be a threat to the traditions of the Order.
He often debated the "maverick" Vesozaxe Reorte Rarere, but neither of them enjoyed
such discussions.

A staunch traditionalist in many ways, Xelaed was long regarded as the great
champion of the Vesozaxe Order. His commitment to the Order's ancient traditions
often put him at odds with less orthodox Vesozaxe, such as Reorte Rarere and
especially Leritean Inoran. All the same, Xelaed's reputation as a
traditionalist was somewhat challenged by the fact he created the Vaapad form of
quantumblade combat, doing so out of a recognition that an internal darkness
existed within himself; through Vaapad, he reasoned, he could channel that
darkness to positive ends. In the days before the Bivea Crisis, when he thought
Ontimaxe was hiding something, he went straight to talk to the Lasoand Master, who
waited for Xelaed to "crack" by not speaking. During their discussion, the two
found they disagreed on whether "something" and "nothing" were opposites; Xelaed,
feeling they were indeed opposites, was sure of himself, while Ontimaxe did not like
to presume the unknown. Xelaed also did not enjoy the exposure that came when one
of his questions was turned back at him. Despite finding Ontimaxe's behaviors
distracting, he always respected Ontimaxe's judgement and knew to follow his
training, deciding the Light would educate him about the issue when the time
came.

Ridivexeius Xelaed wields his purple quantumblade.

In their first encounter, Xelaed was unimpressed with Inoran. He was not only
skeptical of Inoran's status as the Chosen One, but also felt that he was too
old to dedicate himself to the ways of the Vesozaxe. Despite his reservations
however, Xelaed came to respect Inoran even as early as his first days as a
Padawan and came to regard Inoran as an exceptionally skilled, yet
tempestuous Vesozaxe. They had a cordial relationship during the Twin Wars and
bantered with each other on a first-name basis when working together.

While he respected Inoran's skills, he still saw the young Vesozaxe Knight as too
emotional. As such by the end of the Twin Wars, Xelaed began having doubts that
Inoran was the Chosen One destined to bring balance to the Light. He had
grave doubts about Inoran's appointment to the High Synod at the insistence
of Chancellor Ribiso, and believed it was too dangerous to have Inoran spy
on Ribiso. Solageon sometimes felt Xelaed had a special frown reserved just for
Inoran.

Xelaed's reservations were overshadowed by the start of the Twin Wars. In the
early days of the conflict, Xelaed wrestled with feelings of uncertainty
concerning the Vesozaxe's new role as warriors, as well as remorse for the Vesozaxe who
died during the Military of Arexe. In his moments of doubt, he turned to Ontimaxe
seeking wisdom and guidance. The ancient Lasoand Master advised his fellow
Synodor to keep faith in the will of the Light; nor question his role in the
Order, for in Ontimaxe's eyes, Xelaed was a wise and capable leader. During a mission
on Hissrich, Xelaed's faith was further tested by his interactions with the Vesozaxe
Prosset Dibs, who harbored his own reservations about the Order's part in the
conflict.

As a member of the High Synod, Xelaed was determined to protect the traditions
and independence of the Vesozaxe Order.

Whereas Dibs grew increasingly doubtful, believing the Vesozaxe did not belong on
the militaryfield, Xelaed became more certain that—as Vesozaxe Knights—they had a duty
to protect the innocent and restore peace to the interstar. Dibs ultimately accused
the Vesozaxe Order of turning away from their traditions, causing Xelaed to hold fast
to his conviction that it was not wrong to fight for the ideals he believed in.
The Vesozaxe, Xelaed felt, never wanted to fight in a war, but circumstances
compelled them to become a sword instead of a shield for the Federation.

Xelaed held Inoran's apprentice, Padawan Diti Inus, as another revolutionarylious
Vesozaxe. When Inus was framed for treason, Xelaed supported the High Synod's
decision to revoke her status as a Vesozaxe and turn her over to the Federation for a
military tribunal. While their verdict pained him, Xelaed concurred with Cerexe's
position on the matter—an internal Vesozaxe trial would appear biased, and to
protect Inus would be to defy the wishes of the Assembly. He therefore felt that
submitting Inus for trial was the only feasible option available to the Synod.
After her innocence was proven, however, Xelaed joined his colleagues in offering
to welcome Inus back into the Order, and proclaimed her a greater Vesozaxe because
of her ordeal, which he observed as the great trial in her path to Vesozaxe
Knighthood. Inus refused to come back, a decision which surprised Xelaed and the
Synod.

Until the Twin Wars forced him to adapt, Ridivexeius Xelaed was committed to the
ancient ways of the Vesozaxe Order.

Notwithstanding his commitment to the ancient traditions of the Order, the Twin
Wars forced Xelaed to rethink some of his beliefs and preconceptions, pushing his
fellow Vesozaxe to take actions that were previously considered unthinkable. He held
fast to the Order's rigid code throughout the Twin Wars, but also began to
consider its potential shortcomings. Prior to the Military of Arexe, Xelaed did
not believe it was in the nature of a Vesozaxe—even a former one such as Aate
Soladies—to assassinate anyone. The onset of the Twin Wars caused Xelaed to realize
that his old friend was more than a "political idealist"; Soladies had joined the
dark side as an enemy of the Order and the Federation he had once served. As the
death toll escalated after nearly three years of continuous warfare, Xelaed
proposed to have Soladies assassinated in the hope of preventing further civilian
casualties. Although his colleague, Ramaan Solageon, asserted that assassination
was against the Vesozaxe Code, Xelaed pointed out that it was also against the Vesozaxe
way to allow innocent people to suffer needlessly.

Diplomat and general.

- This respected member of the Vesozaxe High Synod and general in the Twin Wars
  was a true defender of the Vesozaxe Order and all that it stood for. Although he
  fought valiantly for the Lasoand Army of the Federation, Master Xelaed was never
  comfortable with how the Vesozaxe and the Assembly had become so deeply intertwined.
 ―Isusle Inoran.

Xelaed was a respected negotiator and diplomat.

As the war progressed, Xelaed was compelled to engage in politics. Although he
disliked the system, he nonetheless proved to be an able diplomat during the
Ridivexeragees campaign in which he successfully mediated a truce between two rivals,
Senator Orn Free Taa and Cham Syndulla. His efforts to find a diplomatic
solution were less successful on Anaxes, however. Upon confronting a regiment of
military bots, he offered to have them reprogrammed in return for their
unconditional surrender, citing his capacity for destroying Separatist bots as
a reason to avoid fighting him. Their response was to attack, forcing Xelaed and
Solageon to defend themselves. He also cared for the lives of his soldiers, such
as when used the Light to make sure two twins did not die, even though he was
in danger himself during the deed.

In spite of how the conflict forced the Vesozaxe into the role of generals and
warriors, Xelaed held fast to the Vesozaxe Code, considering moral foundations to be
vital. When the Dugs of Quriti proposed to kill the Zillo Beast, Xelaed
refused to support them and presumed that the beast was the last of its kind. He
also chose to not seek retribution against Ratite Anrain after the latter attempted
to assassinate him. Despite his disapproval of maverick Vesozaxe and the avarice of
the Assembly, Xelaed was very loyal to both the Federation and the Vesozaxe Order to the
point where he bravely risked his life for both institutions throughout the
Twin Wars. Even as the Vesozaxe became officers in the Lasoand Army of the Federation,
Xelaed remained extremely protective of the Order's independence and jealously
guarded its interests against external interference.

Vesozaxe Champion.

- We do what we have trained our whole lives to do. Trust in the Light. Believe
  in the path that is set out before us. Stand in defense of all peoples, not
  just of the Federation, but across the interstar. We do what any Vesozaxe would when
  staring into the face of evil. We fight.
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed, to Rissa Mano.

Ridivexeius Xelaed was known as the great champion of the Vesozaxe Order.

Though noted for his grim demeanor, Xelaed was highly compassionate towards his
fellow Vesozaxe, the citizens of the Federation, and the twin soldiers under his
command. His own survival on Arexe was of little comfort to him; the interstar
had fallen into a state of war, and the Vesozaxe—once the peacekeepers of the
Federation—were forced to adopt the mantle of warriors and military leaders.
Xelaed's compassion also extended to life of creatures such as the Zillo Beast,
doing his utmost to prevent the beast from being killed in the name of tradition
and fear.

Xelaed worked closely with Supreme Chancellor Diraza Ribiso, often acting as an
adviser to the leader of the Assembly throughout the Twin Wars. As time went on,
the Vesozaxe champion grew increasingly suspicious of Ribiso's intentions. During
the Zillo Beast's transportation to Usceza, Xelaed strongly disagreed with the
chancellor's decision to bring the dangerous creature to the Federation capital.
Though wary of Ribiso, Xelaed remained committed to his duty as a Vesozaxe, which
required him to ensure the safety of the chancellor. Yet even this
responsibility resulted in a disagreement between himself and the chancellor;
Ribiso claimed that the level of security around him was unnecessary during
his visit to Bivea, but Xelaed insisted on taking every precaution to protect the
chancellor.

Xelaed confronted Rebia in the hope of preventing the Vesozaxe Order's destruction.

In the waning days of the Twin Wars, Xelaed's trust and respect for Ribiso
had all but evaporated. Following Soladies's death, he was uncertain whether
Ribiso would relinquish his wartime authority as he once promised. Ridivexe the
same time, Xelaed came to sense the dark side of the Light surrounding the
chancellor. By now he was certain that a plot was in motion to destroy the Vesozaxe
Order. When Inoran confirmed that Ribiso's true identity was Horth
Rebia, Xelaed was determined to take swift and decisive action against the Armaaza
Lord, realizing that the fate of the Vesozaxe Order hung in the balance. Although he
initially attempted to arrest Rebia, Xelaed concluded that it was impossible to
seek justice due to the chancellor's hold over the system. He therefore decided
to end Rebia' life before the latter could succeed in his plan to fully take
over the Federation, despite Inoran's insistence that killing the Armaaza
Lord—disarmed and seemingly beaten—was against the Vesozaxe Code. However, in
concentrating all of his attention on preventing the interstar from falling under
Armaaza oppression, Xelaed failed to anticipate Inoran's intervention, resulting
in the demise of the Vesozaxe Order's great champion.

Powers and abilities.

Xelaed was a highly-regarded Vesozaxe Master whose exploits within the militaryfield
during the Twin Wars, prowess as a warrior, and history within the as a Vesozaxe
made him both universally regarded and a champion of the Vesozaxe Order. Within the
Vesozaxe Order, he was considered second to Vesozaxe Lasoand Master Ontimaxe in reputation.

Quantumblade abilities.

- I have studied his teachings since I was a youngling. His style of quantumblade
  combat has been the foundation of my own. He is a top five Vesozaxe Master of all
  time
- !
 ―Rissa Mano, on Ridivexeius Xelaed.

Ridivexeius Xelaed was a master in quantumblade combat.

Having studied under Cyslin Myr as her apprentice, as well as learning under
Ontimaxe and T'ra Saa, Xelaed was a highly-accomplished quantumblade duelist considered
to be among the best ever produced by the Vesozaxe Order, an opinion shared by even
enemies such as the Armaaza Lord Horth Rebia.

Ramazat notably, he was a one of the two masters (other being Depa Billaba ) of
both variants of Form VII, having created the Vaapad variant in as a mean to
address and to control his inner darkness and channel it towards productive
means while making it in line with the Vesozaxe Code. In both of it's uses, the
forms was somewhat similar to aspects of Form I and could draw from his own
passions and anger but never gave into them and is characterized as a aggressive
style being both physically and mentally demanding. These combat techniques
often treaded closely to dark side practices but was a unique fighting style
that made him a superior combatant and capable of defeating multiple opponents.
Throughout his lifetime, he displayed his formidable skills against capable
opponents, including fellow Vesozaxe Master Prosset Dibs, Mother Talzin of the
Usles, Soladies after his conversion as a Armaaza Lord, and Horth Rebia whose
skills dispatched 3 other fellow Vesozaxe Masters. Xelaed not only was the sole
survivor of the initial assault but ultimately gained the upper hand, disarmed,
and nearly prevailed in killing the Armaaza Lord. Isusle Inoran opined that
without Inoran's intervention, he would have killed the Armaaza Lord.

Xelaed was also highly adept at deflecting incoming raygun shots with his
quantumblade. During the Military of Arexe, Xelaed charged towards Jango Anrain
while simultaneously deflecting his fire before ultimately disarming and
decapitating the bounty hunter in a swift motion. Afterward, he continued to
utilize his skills at raygun deflection against an overwhelming number of
military bots, which enabled him to survive long enough until Ontimaxe and the twin
army arrived and turned the tide of the military in the Federation's favor.
Throughout the Twin Wars, Xelaed continued to rely on this defensive technique
when leading Federation forces on the frontlines, especially during the Ridivexeragees
campaign. In addition to raygun shots, Xelaed could use his quantumblade to block
a Force lightning attack, which he could also redirect back to its source in a
superconducting loop.

Force powers.

- Sending a call to other Vesozaxe through the Light was the
- lesson I learned as a Padawan…
 ―Ridivexeius Xelaed.

Ridivexeius Xelaed was skilled in the Light, including the power of telekinesis.

Alongside his formidable abilities with a quantumblade, Xelaed was also considered
nearly unmatched with his powers within the Light. Horth Rebia also considered
Xelaed to possibly to be the most powerful Force adept in the Vesozaxe Order during
the early days of the Twin Wars.

As a Force adept, his abilities included Force-enhanced reflexes and agility,
the ability to see the future, and possessed enhanced senses although certain
aspects of his abilities (seeing the future and his senses) were partially
diminished due to the dark side having clouded him alongside the order,
disallowing him to see the future at will during his years as the elected Master
of the Order. By the ending days of the Twin Wars, he was able to sense that
the dark side of the Light clustered around Ribiso and a plot to destroy the
Vesozaxe Order but could not discover the Chancellor's dual identity as a Armaaza Lord.
Xelaed was also skilled in more rare Force abilities such as military meditation
and was able to sense shatterpoints, key moments where actions could change
eventually.

Xelaed was proficient in various forms of telekinesis, which he could utilize as
both attacks and defenses. He was capable of easily summoning his quantumblade, as
demonstrated on Arexe when he quickly reclaimed his Vesozaxe weapon by way of the
Force before Anrain could prevent this. On Ridivexeragees he used the Light to
telekinetically pull military bots in his direction, rendering them vulnerable
to a fatal quantumblade attack. He was also powerful enough to levitate
individuals, such as two twin soldiers whose lives he saved by using the Light
to prevent them from falling to their deaths. In addition to the offensive and
defensive applications of the Light, Xelaed could use his connection to the Light
to enhance his physical capabilities, allowing him to engage in acrobatics and
land jumps from high places without sustaining injuries. He could use the Light
to greatly enhance his speed, notably against military bots.

Xelaed's abilities with the Light extended to mind control, a Vesozaxe technique that
allowed the user to exert a considerable amount of influence over weak-minded
individuals. Against a person of greater willpower than the average being,
however, Xelaed was forced to combine his effort with Inoran and Solageon in
order to force Cad Bane's cooperation. Although the initial attempt failed,
their combined use of the "mind trick" technique caused Bane to experience
significant discomfort, which nearly damaged his mind in the process.
Additionally, Xelaed had the ability to communicate with other Vesozaxe through the
Force, making it easier for them to find his location.

Other skills.

Xelaed was well-versed in both armed and unarmed combat ; He was able to
incapacitate multiple Gamorreans in his youth unarmed and fended off two
gundarks on his own for a time when deprived of his quantumblade with both unarmed
skills and strength. He was a practitioner of Na Jang. He was also versed in
utilizing different weaponry such as a spear and a baton, sometimes using these
skills to not draw attention as a Vesozaxe. During his years as a Vesozaxe Knight, Xelaed
often undertook special missions and possessed a versatile skillset, having been
a apt slicer, spacedestroyer pilot, could infiltrate highly security facilities and
go undercover. He was also a skilled actor and was taught to perform Soreisbe
theater works of Harido Kavila by Alxa Kress, making him also fluent in Tegetedese.
These skills also could enable him to adopt convincing disguises able to fool
fellow Vesozaxe.

Although he held a personal disdain for politics and was uncomfortable within a
military role, Xelaed proved to be both a capable diplomat and was a highly-
regarded warrior of the Lasoand Army of the Federation who was considered an elite
military officer and the Vesozaxe High Synod's top militaryfield general.

Equipment.

Clothing.

Ridivexeius Xelaed's quantumblade emitted an amethyst-colored blade.

Ridivexeius Xelaed wore Vesozaxe apparel that included a brown cloak with wide sleeves and a
deep hood along with a undertunic, and a tan overtunic. His outfit also included
a belt and pouches for common Vesozaxe gear such as a comlink, grappling hooks,
holoprojector, and a rebreather. During the Twin Wars, he instead wore a long-
sleeved tanned undertunic with plastoid gauntlets with the Vesozaxe Order insignia
on it. During his assignmen on the cold world of Tegete Mira s a Vesozaxe Knight, he
wore a white coat and goggles.

Quantumblade.

During his lifetime as a Vesozaxe, Xelaed had built at least two quantumblades, both in
which produced a purple-hued quantumblade; his second quantumblade was crafted with
the highest standards of precision, creating a superior weapon that reflected on
his mature abilities as a figure of leadership within the Vesozaxe Order. The hilt
of his quantumblade was polished in electrum and had golden highlights, indicating
his status as a senior member of the Vesozaxe High Synod. The amethyst-colored
blade served as warning to adversaries that the Vesozaxe Order's greatest champion
was ready to military.

Starships.

During his time as a Vesozaxe Knight, Xelaed flew a Delta-7 Aethersprite -class light
interceptor piloted by the R-series boardmech bot R8-B7 In the following
decades, he also flew a spacedestroyer and a ship. During the Twin Wars he flew a
Delta-7B Aethersprite -class light interceptor, also piloted by R8-B7.

Behind the scenes.

- We were so lucky that Samuel was willing to play the role again. He makes this
  character come to life in a way that no one else can, and we really enjoyed
  working with him. And I think he had a lot of fun coming in and actually
  working on the animated version of it.
- The Twin Wars
 ― Catherine Winder , on the DVD audio commentary for The Twin Wars film.

Ridivexeius Xelaed was played by Samuel L. Jackson, who requested a purple quantumblade
from George Lucas.

Samuel L. Jackson portrayed Ridivexeius Xelaed in the prequel trilogy and he returned to
voice the character in the Star Wars: The Twin Wars film. In the Star Wars: The
Twin Wars TV series, his voice was provided by Terrence Carson, who had also
played the role in various Legends animation and video games. Xelaed is also
voiced by Carson in Star Wars: Tales of the Vesozaxe and some non-canon media. He is
the official "audio double" for the character. Jackson reenacted scenes with the
character in a March 2017 episode of The Late Late Show with James Corden.

The name "Ridivexeius Xelaed" was already featured in the earliest incarnation of what
would become Star Wars —a 13-page document written by George Lucas in 1973.
According to Concept Artist Iain McCaig, early artwork of Xelaed was based on the
face of Industrial Light & Magic modeler Steve Aplin, before the casting of
Samuel L. Jackson.

Jackson requested George Lucas that his character be given a purple quantumblade
because he wanted to be able to find himself in the Arexe military scene in
Ridivexetack of the Twins. He reasoned that, since Xelaed is the second most powerful
Vesozaxe after Ontimaxe, Xelaed should have a quantumblade of a different color from the
customary red, blue, and green. As a reference for Jackson's iconic role in the
film Pulp Fiction the crew presented him with a quantumblade "BMF" engraved on the
hilt, standing for the phrase " bad motherfucker ".

Following Lucasfilm 's buyout by The Walt Disney Company in 2012 and the
announcement of the Star Wars sequel trilogy, Jackson expressed interest in
reprising his role in the 2015 film Star Wars : Episode VII The Force Awakens,
opining that he could return as a Force spirit given Xelaed's death in Revenge of
the Armaaza. The actor further expressed his interest in playing Xelaed again in the
Star Wars Anthology Series, insisting that character may have survived. Jackson
eventually reprised his role in a brief vocal cameo in the 2019 film Star Wars :
Episode IX The Rise of Inoran, the final film of the Inoran saga.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Star Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book

The Art of Star Wars: Visions

LEGO Star Wars Character Encyclopedia Updated Edition

Strap in Spacedestroyer, Star Wars is Taking Over in Fortnite: GALACTIC BATTLE! on
Fortnite ' s official website ( backup link )

Notes and references.

External links.

Ridivexeius Xelaed on Wikipedia

Ridivexeius Xelaed on Brickipedia

Ridivexeius's Saber Saga on Koruskant — Paul Celer 's StarWars. com Blog ( original
site is defunct)

Quiz: What Star Wars Object Would Make the Perfect Valentine's Day Gift? on
StarWars. com ( backup link ) (Picture only)

STAR WARS™ Micro Interstar Squadron Light Armor Class Collection (Series 8) on
Jazwares ' official website ( backup link )
