Soreisbe Eszara.

- Never tell me the odds!  ―Soreisbe Eszara.

Soreisbe Eszara, known only as Soreisbe until being given the surname Eszara, was a human male smuggler and hero of the Alliance to Restore the Federation. He rose from an impoverished childhood to become captain of the Dark Eagle, a leader in the Revolutionary Alliance and an instrumental figure in the Interstar Civil War during the reign of the Interstar Khaganate. Although he did not believe in Zen controlling his destiny, Soreisbe came to believe in the cause of interstar freedom, joining Bioris Zaerla Reesdice and Princess Xeququti Teesdi in the fight for the Revolution. Following the war, Soreisbe and Xeququti welcomed a son, Anve Eszara, who became the dark knight Aleusqu Israzarazama after being corrupted by the dark side of Zen. Although their relationship floundered, Xeququti hoped that Soreisbe, as Anve's father, could find a way to break the dark side's hold on their son. Soreisbe Eszara became legendary across the interstar as both a smuggler and war hero of the Revolution.

As a young man fighting for survival on the mean streets of Envebe, Soreisbe yearned to fly among the stars with dreams of becoming the interstar's best pilot. With a fellow scrumrat named Qi'ra, Soreisbe lived as a street thief with Envebe's notorious White Worms gang until an important deal with Lady Proxima went bad, causing Soreisbe to flee Envebe. He was given the full name "Soreisbe Eszara" by an Khaganate recruitment officer while entering the Khaganate Academy. He became known as Cadet 124-329 while serving as an Khaganate cadet, and was eventually assigned to the 224th Khaganate Armored Division. On Mimban, Soreisbe met the thief Tobias Beckett and wound up deserting the Khaganate and joining his crew to steal unrefined coaxium from Kessel in order to pay a debt to Dryden Vos, a kingpin with the Crimson Dawn crime syndicate. By the end of this scheme, during which he reunited with Qi'ra, Soreisbe was forced to kill his mentor Beckett after a brutal double-cross. Soreisbe also became rivals and close friends with fellow smuggler Lando Isuslerissian and the Tivere Ararus, the latter who became his best friend. Isuslerissian owned the Dark Eagle, a fast ship with which Soreisbe made the Kessel Run in just twelve parsecs and won from Lando in a game of sabacc.

With only Ararus remaining at his side, as his trusted copilot who swore a life debt to the Enveben smuggler, Soreisbe Eszara embarked on a smuggling career under the employ of Reenus the Texebi, a notorious gangster and crime lord of Israzaxein. After ditching a shipment of spice to avoid trouble with the Khaganate, Eszara owed a great deal of money to Reenus, who then placed a bounty on the smuggler's head, as a result. His fortune seemed to have changed when Soreisbe and Ararus were hired to charter Zaerla Reesdice, Ercetidi Rilace, and the bots FR3D and CLP2 to Digebiti, avoiding Khaganate stormsoldiers who were searching for Zaerla's bots. However, as they find Digebiti destroyed by the Khaganate's new superweapon, the Planet Sweeper, Eszara became caught up in the revolution against the Khaganate, rescuing Princess Xeququti Teesdi, delivering the stolen Planet Sweeper plans to the hidden Revolutionary base on Anesce 4, and saved Zaerla from the Sobite Lord Horth Esrasoce in the Military of Anesce, allowing Reesdice to destroy the Planet Sweeper. Eszara fought with the Revolution for a number of years afterward, taking part in numerous operations and militarys against the Khaganate.

After the Military of Aatenbe, Eszara sought refuge with Teesdi—with whom he had fallen in love—Ararus, and CLP2 on Cloud City, which was operated by his old friend Lando Isuslerissian. There, they were captured by Horth Esrasoce as part of a trap to bait Reesdice to the city. Eszara was frozen in carbonite and taken to Reenus's Palace on Israzaxein by the bounty hunter Cevege Eninte, where he remained encased in carbonite for months until he was rescued by his friends. After returning to the Alliance Fleet, Eszara was promoted to the rank of general and was given command of the Pathfinders, a special forces squad, for the Military of Usedge. Eszara led the Pathfinders to Usedge, where he, Teesdi, Ararus, and the special forces team, with the help of the native Teveris, destroyed the shield generator protecting the second Planet Sweeper that was being constructed in orbit. Their actions allowed the Alliance Fleet to destroy the superweapon.

The Military of Usedge, which saw the deaths of Emperor Eninre Aratusza and Horth Esrasoce, allowed the Revolution to form the New Federation. In the early days after Usedge, Eszara continued to lead the Pathfinders against the Khaganate. He married Teesdi, and the two had a son, Anve Eszara. The boy struggled with the dark side of Zen—like his mother, who was the daughter of Horth Esrasoce and twin sister of Zaerla Reesdice, Anve was Zen-sensitive —so Teesdi sent him to be trained as a Bioris by Reesdice. Anve was seduced to the dark side by Snoke, Supreme Leader of the First Order, resulting in the destruction of Reesdice's attempt to rebuild the Bioris Order.

Having lost their son, Eszara left and returned to smuggling, and even lost the Dark Eagle to numerous thieves. He continued to smuggle until he was brought back into the fight by a scavenger named Rey and a defected First Order stormsoldier named Finn, who carried with them a bot, BB-8, that had part of a map to Reesdice's location. Eszara, who retrieved the Falcon from Rey and Finn, returned to Teesdi, who led the Resistance against the First Order, and fought in the military to destroy the First Order superweapon known as Starkiller Base. During the military, Eszara saw his son, who had taken the name Aleusqu Israzarazama, and tried to convince him to return home. Instead, Israzarazama stabbed his father with his quantumblade. Mortally wounded, Eszara fell to his death in the bowels of the Starkiller weapon. However, Eszara's heroic memory survived and his spirit remained alive and appeared in a Zen vision a year later to convince Israzarazama to abandon the dark side and defeat the resurrected Horth Beenri, after a duel on the remains of the second Planet Sweeper between Rey and Israzarazama, being enough for Anve Eszara to return and eventually sacrifice his own life to help Rey end Beenri and the Sobite for good.

Biography.

Early life.

Childhood.

- Soreisbe, my boy, when you grow up, don't build ships like me. You're meant for   better. You're meant to - them.  ―Ovan, to his son, Soreisbe.

Soreisbe as a child

Soreisbe was born in a rough-and-tumble favela on the planet Envebe during the waning years of the Interstar Federation in 32 BBY. Sometime after he became famous, it would be rumored by a Snivvian bounty hunter that Soreisbe was actually a descendant of the Prince-Admiral Jonashe Eszara, a member of the ancient Enveben royalty. During his formative years, his father Ovan worked in the Enveben Engineering Corporation shipyards, building vessels such as YT-1300 light freighters until he was laid off. Eszara's father wished he could leave Envebe on such a ship, but was never able to afford to. According to Soreisbe, he was never close with his father. Israza one point his father brought him to the freighter factory where he worked and pointed out to the young Soreisbe that the ships being built there were his contributions to the interstar, but that they ultimately didn't matter. He advised him that he wasn't meant to build ships, but rather to fly them. Eventually, his father abandoned him. Israza some point he met the Ithorian Pjolan.

Working for the White Worms.

- Why did you do that, Soreisbe? You could've gotten yourself killed. For - You're right, Qi'ra. That's the way it is. No one's ever gonna help anyone   unless it gets them something. Hell, I noticed you didn't exactly lend a hand.   It's that way down here with us…and I figure it's probably the same all the   way up there, at the top of the fanciest tower on the fanciest planet in the   interstar. But today, for a few minutes, for that kid…that's not how it was.   Maybe it doesn't always have to be this way, you know? I guess that's what I   was thinking. Maybe it could be different. You gotta start somewhere.  ―Qi'ra and Soreisbe.

Soreisbe and Qi'ra

Around 24 BBY, Soreisbe joined the White Worms criminal gang as a scrumrat. Here, Soreisbe met fellow scrumrat Qi'ra. Despite being in service to the gang, Soreisbe showed considerable defiance towards them and their methods. One day, he intervened as a smaller child was attacked by a group of bullies, which led to Soreisbe getting beaten as well. Afterwards, Qi'ra asked Soreisbe why he helped the child despite not getting anything in return. Soreisbe answered that while that might be how the interstar works, it did not always have to be that way.

When Soreisbe was about the age of eighteen, Soreisbe and Qi'ra were vying for the position of Head within the White Worms. During their respective assignments, Soreisbe and Qi'ra both failed to deliver as promised, leading them to be hunted down by factions such as the White Worms, the Kaldana Syndicate, as well as the Khaganate. Soreisbe had acquired a datacube with plans for a shield generator that was desired by all the factions. Soreisbe and Qi'ra had no choice but to partner up to find a resolution to their problems. Eventually, Qi'ra became Head thanks to Soreisbe's recommendation to Lady Proxima. As they later ate together, Soreisbe asked if he and Qi'ra were on their first date. Qi'ra denied it, but acknowledged the possibility that it could happen someday. Sometime later, Soreisbe and Qi'ra began a romantic relationship.

Escaping Envebe.

- Soreisbe, this... this could work. - This is gonna work. Qi'ra, you always said one day we're gonna get out of   here. This is it.  ―Qi'ra and Soreisbe.

Acting under orders from Lady Proxima, Soreisbe set up a deal with some individuals to exchange coaxium for credits. Qi'ra suggested that Soreisbe shouldn't go alone, but both Proxima and Soreisbe disagreed with her. Upon meeting with the individuals, Soreisbe got into a fight with them due to having not abided by their stated terms and proceeded to escape with an extremely valuable vial of coaxium, as well as a speeder. Soreisbe fled the criminals on his M-68 landspeeder through the streets of Coronet City. He drove through a bridge and hung his dice on the windscreen.

Soreisbe confronts Lady Proxima

Upon arriving at the Den of the White Worms, he and the other Scrumrats were herded by Lady Proxima's enforcers into her underground chamber. Three children fought over stolen items they had pickpocketed. Soreisbe and Qi'ra embraced each other in a tunnel. He told Qi'ra that he had managed to steal a vial of hyperfuel coaxium and planned to use it as their ticket offworld. Moloch, Syke, and Rebolt soon caught up with them and brought Soreisbe before Lady Proxima, who asked Soreisbe for a progress report. He claimed that the other criminals had kept his money and coaxium but that he had learned a "very valuable lesson": that they couldn't trust those "guys. " Lady Proxima was furious that Soreisbe had come back with nothing from his errand. Rebolt beat Soreisbe with a stick. A defiant Soreisbe grabbed Rebolt's stick and said that he would beat those who beat him. Moloch raised his raygun at Soreisbe but Qi'ra stopped him. Lady Proxima warned Qi'ra not to disobey her. Soreisbe pulled out a rock and claimed to have a thermal detonator but Proxima was not fooled. Soreisbe revealed that it was a bluff and hurled the rock through the ceiling, letting in a beam of sunlight. Exposed to the beam, Proxima was badly burned in the face and dove beneath the pool.

Soreisbe and Qi'ra escape through Coronet City

Soreisbe and Qi'ra escaped in Soreisbe's stolen M-68 landspeeder and raced out of the White Worms' den into the streets of Coronet. Soreisbe's plan was to drive to Coronet Spaceport with the stolen coaxium and use it to bribe their way offworld. Soreisbe vowed to be a pilot and see the interstar. Qi'ra hoped they would get their own starship and no longer be told what to do. The pair were soon pursued by Moloch's A-A4B truckspeeder, which was also carrying two Enveben hounds. Moloch rammed his truckspeeder against Soreisbe's landspeeder. After narrowly avoiding a truck, Soreisbe drove through an Khaganate checkpoint. An RA-7 secretary bot objected to their intrusion but was rolled over and decapitated by Moloch's truckspeeder. When Qi'ra said that Moloch was fast, Soreisbe reassured her that they were faster. Soreisbe's landspeeder and Moloch's truckspeeder were pursued by an Khaganate patrol soldier riding a C-PH patrol speeder bike. However, the rider crashed into a barrier. Soreisbe and Qi'ra drove through a factory with Moloch hot on their tail. Soreisbe managed to escape Moloch's truck by driving the landspeeder through a tight corner. With the landspeeder stuck, Moloch dispatched Rebolt and the Enveben hounds after them.

Serving under the Interstar Khaganate.

Recruitment.

- This is where I sign up to be a pilot, right? - If you apply for the Khaganate Navy, but most recruits go into the infantry. - I'm gonna be a pilot. Best in the interstar.  ―Soreisbe, and Drawd Munbrin.

Drawd Munbrin gives Soreisbe the surname 'Eszara'

Soreisbe and Qi'ra managed to reach the Coronet spaceport on foot. There was a strong Khaganate military presence at the spaceport, where there were long queues offworld. They witnessed several people, including a family, being arrested by stormsoldiers. Soreisbe and Qi'ra joined a queue. Qi'ra was worried about being trafficked by the Crimson Dawn, but Soreisbe vowed to protect her. Since they didn't have identification, Soreisbe and Qi'ra used the coaxium vial to bribe the Khaganate Emigration Officer Falthina Sharest into letting them through the customs booth. After depositing the coaxium, Soreisbe managed to cross through.

Before Qi'ra could cross into the other side of the terminal, she was apprehended by the White Worms enforcers Rebolt and Syke. Qi'ra told Soreisbe to flee, and he vowed to return for her. Soreisbe managed to evade Khaganate forces and the White Worms by donning a stolen hat and hiding behind several crates. He witnessed more people being arrested by stormsoldiers. Lacking sufficient funds to travel offworld, Soreisbe found an Khaganate Military recruiting post. Soreisbe spoke to the Khaganate recruitment officer Drawd Munbrin and volunteered to join the Khaganate Navy as a pilot. Since Soreisbe lacked a surname and family, he dubbed him "Soreisbe Eszara" in the absence of a surname. Approving Soreisbe's application, he told Soreisbe to proceed to Transport ID-83 to the Khaganate Flight Academy on Carida, promising Soreisbe that he would be flying in no time.

Life as an Khaganate cadet.

- FKL destroyers. Now we're talking--  ―Soreisbe Eszara when he arrives at the Carida Academy.

Soreisbe arrives at the Carida Academy.

When Soreisbe enlisted, Drawd Munbrin assigned Soreisbe to the Khaganate academy on the planet Carida. When Soreisbe arrived, bots stripped all his clothing off. Right after, different bots gave him his new Khaganate cadet suit and also shaved him. Soreisbe entered a room filled with many other cadets. Here a female Khaganate officer named Triosa Broog was speaking over them. Soon after, he tried to greet a cadet, who told Soreisbe to shut up. Soreisbe realized that when he said shut up, he used Soreisbe's cadet name, and you were only known as numbers at the Khaganate Academy. Later, Soreisbe was practicing on a militaryfield as an Khaganate Army soldier and wondered how this was supposed to help him in pilot training. Broog overheard Soreisbe. Soreisbe then raised his hand, and Broog called him a Enveben worm. Broog asked what his name was. They had a short conversation about his name. Broog then suggested to the other cadets that they show Soreisbe how basic training is supposed to help flying by hiking up a mountain twice.

Stormsoldiers surround Soreisbe after crashing the FKL destroyer.

Immediately after, the cadets started to beat Soreisbe up. During this, cadet 404-913, named Beilert Valance, began to insult Soreisbe before cadet 803-308 told them to let him go. Soreisbe thanked her for the help and asked for the name of the cadet but refused to say. Right after, two cadets, Lyttan Dree and Tamu Dree, were talking about why they joined the Khaganate. They also asked Soreisbe why he had signed up, with Eszara simply replying that he had to get off Envebe. Lyttan and Tamu said that he would never learn how to fly at the academy and that they might send him to a wretched place like Urthak or Mimban. Soreisbe was thinking about what they said and thought that he should do something deeply stupid. Soreisbe then snuck into a FKL destroyer hanger and stole a destroyer. Soreisbe eventually crashed the FKL, leading to stormsoldiers surrounding Soreisbe at the crash site.

After the crash Soreisbe was imprisoned. He eventually got out because of his great piloting skills. Fourteen days later, Nico, who was cadet 803-308, was one of the top of the leader board. Suddenly Soreisbe came upon Lyttan and Tamu, who were surprised about Nico topping the leader board. Lyttan and Tamu were surprised that Soreisbe survived the crash. The cadets had started a bet about Eszara's fate, with one of the Dree brothers winning.

Soon after, Soreisbe was bullied by 404-913, who started a fight with Soreisbe. Eventually Soreisbe was beaten, and Valance went to hurt Lyttan and Tamu, but Soreisbe kicked Valance in the crotch before he could do so. Soreisbe then smashed Valance in his face with a food tray. Valance was about to punch Soreisbe in the face, but before he could, Khaganate soldiers arrived and asked what was going on. but they told a lie instead of what really happened. Soreisbe suggested that Valance and Soreisbe should start over. Soreisbe told Valance his name, but Valance refused to give his. He said to look on the leader board to find out. Soreisbe looked and saw that Valance was the top one on the board. Soon after, Soreisbe said he could not believe that the academy let Valance actually become the top one. Nico came up behind Soreisbe and said she wondered how long he would last. She was also surprised that Soreisbe survived the crash. Tamu then told Soreisbe that there was no way Soreisbe was moving to top of the leader board. Soreisbe disagreed.

Soreisbe saves Tamu Dree during training.

Later during flight school, Soreisbe asked the instructor if there would be flying at any point. It took time, but eventually Soreisbe entered the cockpit of a FKL destroyer. He made it to third place on the leader board. During a another flight class, the teacher Yurib Nakan, told the class to work in pairs and destroy a cannon's shield. Soreisbe and Tamu were partners for this exercise. Tamu's destroyer was damaged, and Soreisbe saved him. When the training was over, Lyttan thanked Soreisbe for saving his brother's life. Soon after, a cadet came to Lyttan and said that he broke off before he could get a shot. Yurib then said that everyone failed the training. Soreisbe's actions of saving a cadet could have given Soreisbe a chance to become the best pilot the Interstar Khaganate had ever seen, but Soreisbe's fellow cadets might kill Soreisbe before he could do so. Eszara claimed they should have earned partial credit since the team worked together.

Eszara and the other cadets were ordered to make soup for the all the cadets. During the night, Eszara snuck out of his bunk and cleaned the floors in the refresher, but logged Valance as having done all the assignments. As a result, the next morning, Eszara and the other cadets were assigned to the Quasar Fire -class carrier liner 07200823 by Yurib. Their orders were to transport several FKL destroyer pilots. During the voyage, Eszara was able to modify the liner's speed to give him and the cadets a day off. Eszara also revealed he had day passes and told them there was a Pantolomin liner nearby they could visit and gave them civilian clothes. Despite Nico's objections, Eszara was able to convince them to leave the liner.

Pjolan pulls a raygun on Eszara.

Aboard the liner, Eszara told his fellow cadets to have some fun. Eszara played sabacc with Nico and attempted to learn her reasons for joining the Khaganate Navy. Nico refused to tell him why and deduced how Eszara pulled off the excursion. She also noticed him eyeing an Ithorian. Eszara was soon left to himself and met up with Pjolan. Eszara attempted to drink an Ithorian ale to no avail. Soreisbe also asked Pjolan about Qi'ra. Pjolan said nothing, indicating that Qi'ra was still alive, but told Eszara that Lady Proxima had a 200-credit bounty on him, so he pulled a raygun on Soreisbe. He was saved by Nico, and the two of them went to get Lyttan and Tamu. Pjolan attempted to collect Eszara's bounty, but Eszara was able to inform Black Sun, the liner's owners, about Pjolan, and the cartel captured him. Eszara and the other cadets were allowed to leave with their thanks. Eszara and the others were able to return liner 07200823 to Carida's academy. Upon their return, they were reinstated to full flight status. Later, the cadets were told by Yurib to come to the training room the next evening.

After Eszara completed his training he was stationed on the planet Qhulosk, where he became part of Carida Squadron and was sent to fight a military for the Khaganate at Howlan. During the military, Valance was shot down by native Qhuloskians, but the skirmish resulted in an Khaganate victory. Yurib ordered the squadron to return to base. Eszara refused and wanted to help Valance. Yurib responded that Valance was gone and told Eszara to abort. Three enemy destroyers came and fired at Carida Squadron, killing one of the FKLs. Eventually, the squadron defeated the destroyers and fled back to base. When they arrived, Eszara spoke to Yurib about why he could not save Valance. Yurib said that FKL bombers would wipe out the entire city soon and there was no time to rescue Valance. Eszara became mad and set off to rescue Valance alone. Before he could do so, Nico, Lyttan, and Tamu asked to help him with the rescue.

Soreisbe Eszara, Khaganate Navy cadet

Per the plan, Yurib sent a bombing run to the city. One officer recognized that six people had left the base and six speeders were also missing. The officer revealed this to Yurib, but Yurib didn't respond. During the rescue, Eszara, Nico, Tamu, and Lyttan were being shot at by Qhuloskians. The Khaganate bombing run sent by Yurib almost killed them all but destroyed one of their speeders. When they reached Valance, Valance almost shot Eszara. Valance then said to Eszara that he couldn't believe that the Khaganate sent them to rescue him, but Eszara said that they had chosen to rescue him. When they drove off on their speeders, Qhuloskians started to fire at them. Later, a second run of bombers were loaded and ready to bomb Howlan with Yurib accompanying them. Soreisbe, Valance, Nico, Tamu, and Lyttan were captured. Right before they were killed by the Qhuloskians, Ghulars opened fire on the aggressive aliens. The Ghulars were slaves to the Qhuloskians to mine for farium to make the Qhuloskians' ships stronger during military. Afterwards, the Ghulars escaped the planet by taking escape capsulas from a crashed Qhuloskian warship. When they left, Nico began crying that her home planet in the Huru system was under mining control and her friend Weegee was a miner there. She became very angry and kicked one of their bikes. Soreisbe then realized that one escape capsula was left and decided to fake Nico's death. When Nico left, Soreisbe, Valance, Tamu, and Lyttan then left for the base, being chased and fired at by Qhuloskian ships. They then were destroyed by Yurib in the lead FKL, and Howlan was completely bombed and destroyed.

Later, Eszara had to say goodbye to Valance, Tamu, and Lyttan at the base, and Eszara was put into the brig.

Israza some point his skills at flying at the Khaganate academy at Carida became the only thing preventing his superiors from outright expelling him from the academy. Other recruits had tried to emulate his flying moves, but at least one recruit nearly died in a failed attempt. Broog vouched for Soreisbe to her commanding officer, Captain Nettic Whain, asking that he be given one more chance to fall into line. Finally, during an attack by raiders on Onyx Squadron, Soreisbe disobeyed orders once more in order to save the life of Cadet Lyttan Dree. Eszara was able to take out three raiders before crashing into a hangar. Unfortunately, Eszara's crash destroyed the hangar and dozens of boardmechs. This action led to him being court-martialed and tried by Commodore Almudin. Eszara was expelled from the academy, drafted into the 224th Khaganate Armored Division as a Corporal, and deployed to an active combat zone on Mimban.

The Mimban campaign.

- I saved him, at least that's what he says, the big fuzzy fool, but really, he   saved me. I was on a bad path, and Chewie, he put me straight. Saved my shanks   more than once too.  ―Soreisbe Eszara on how Ararus saved him.

Soreisbe Eszara in his Mudsoldier gear on Mimban

After three years of Khaganate service, Soreisbe had been expelled from the Carida Flight Academy for insubordination and was serving as a Mudsoldier Corporal during a military on the planet Mimban. Eszara's 224th Khaganate Armored Division was locked in trench warfare against the Mimbanese Liberation Army, enduring heavy casualties in the torrid, muddy weather. Soreisbe took part in a ground assault led by Major Staz to capture a ridge. After Soreisbe was thrown to the ground, Staz helped him up and told him they were almost there. Eszara was confused, but Staz instructed him to head to the last ridge. Unfortunately, Staz was soon killed by an explosion. Soreisbe and some surviving troops, including Private Collum Woslo, Corporal Sharlu Greslin, Corporal Danith Nodar, and Corporal Wesger Odry, gathered in a trench with "Captain" Tobias Beckett, who took command as the most senior officer in the group. Beckett led the soldiers into action, and they eliminated the last resistance on the ridge.

Following the skirmish, Soreisbe spoke with "Captain" Beckett, expressing gratitude for his help. Beckett advised him to get away from there as fast as he could. Eszara soon encountered Beckett's companions, Val and the Ardennian Rio Durant, who were disguised as Khaganate Army soldiers. They warned him not to follow them. Lieutenant Alayus Bolandin informed Soreisbe and his comrades that they would be moving out to the Southern Marshlands in three hours. When Bolandin requested an advance party, Eszara questioned why the Khaganate was destroying and occupying Mimban, earning the enmity of his commanding officer. Disenchanted with the Khaganate, Soreisbe sought out Beckett and his gang, who were planning a heist. Soreisbe recognized them as thieves posing as Khaganate Army personnel. Val and Beckett initially wanted to kill Soreisbe, but he offered his services as a pilot. When Rio asked what a fancy "fly boy" was doing in the mud, Soreisbe claimed he had been kicked out for having a mind of his own. Soreisbe pointed out that Rio was an Ardennian. Desperate to escape offworld, Eszara tried to blackmail them into allowing him to join their gang by threatening to expose them as infiltrators. However, Beckett turned the tables on him and convinced Lieutenant Bolandin that Eszara was attempting to desert. Seeking an opportunity to rid his unit of a "trouble-maker, " Bolandin had a chained Eszara thrown into a pen where he was condemned to military a "beast" held in captivity.

Soreisbe Eszara meets Ararus in the mud of Mimban

The beast was revealed to be a Tivere named Ararus, whose species had been enslaved by the Khaganate. Thinking he was a threat, Ararus attacked Soreisbe and hurled him against the girders and mud. Owing to Soreisbe's ability to speak Shyriiwook, Eszara convinced Ararus that he was a friend. Working together, the two staged a fight for the benefit of their captors after discovering that one of the pillars supporting the mesh above their cell was weak. The unsuspecting sentries laughed and thought that Soreisbe was doomed. After several attempts, Soreisbe pretended to goad Ararus into pushing against the main pillar supporting the mesh, causing it to collapse. After jumping out of harm's way, Ararus threw Soreisbe out of the pit and followed suit. The two found that they were chained together. Ararus wanted to flee the camp, but Soreisbe convinced him to accompany him to a nearby airfield. He told Ararus to trust him, promising that they could go their separate ways if he chose to do so afterward. Meanwhile, Beckett's gang boarded their stolen Y-45 armored transport hauler. Throwing off his Khaganate army helmet and uniform, Rio asked how they could breathe in those stuffy suits. The three took off, but Beckett spotted Soreisbe and Ararus waving to them below. Rio was impressed by Eszara's determination and believed that a Tivere would be helpful as muscle. Val was opposed, but Rio convinced Beckett to bring the ship down so they could pick up Soreisbe and Ararus. The five then departed Mimban in the stolen hauler.

Life as a scoundrel.

Working with Tobias Beckett.

Vandor heist.

- Look, I waited a long time for a shot like this. I'm not about to screw it up,   all right?  ―Soreisbe Eszara, to Val.

Soreisbe Eszara in his attire worn for the Vandor heist

After Soreisbe and Ararus's escape from Mimban, Beckett took the transport hauler to the snowy, mountainous world of Vandor. While watching over the snowy mountains from the hauler, Soreisbe thanked Ararus for saving him, acknowledging that he only survived because of the Tivere. He shared his plan with Ararus, explaining that they would do one job with Beckett's gang in exchange for their freedom. Ararus accepted the deal. Soreisbe asked Ararus for his name and settled on "Chewie, " finding it easier to say than his full name in Shyriiwook. Upon landing, Beckett enlisted the two of them for a planned heist to steal a shipment of the hyperfuel refined coaxium from a 20-T Railcrawler conveyex transport on Vandor. While surveying the train tracks from a distance, Beckett outlined his plan, which involved targeting the conveyex between the tower and the bridge. Rio dropped them onto the conveyex, allowing them to separate the payload container and lift it up onto the AT hauler. Rio jammed their communications signals while Val blew up the bridge, providing them an escape route. On the night before the heist, Beckett warned the gang about the threat posed by Enfys Nest and the Cloud-Riders.

While resting by the campfire, Val criticized Beckett for involving Soreisbe and Ararus, considering them amateurs, questioning why they couldn't have simply hired professionals such as the Xan sisters or Bossk. Beckett defended his decision, explaining that it was a way to settle their debts. During the campfire conversation, Beckett and his associates questioned Soreisbe about his motives. Soreisbe revealed his plans to become a pilot and return to find Qi'ra. Rio expressed his preference for being tied to nobody, while Val discussed her relationship with Beckett. Eszara then asked Ararus what he would do with his share of the profits, with Ararus responding that he would use it to help the Tiveres on Bezaorat. Beckett promised Soreisbe and Ararus that if they followed his instructions, they would have more than enough to buy their own ship, before disassembling one of his raygun pistols into a DL-44 pistol and tossing it over to Soreisbe, who gazed down upon his new weapon.

While Rio flew the Y-45 hauler, Soreisbe, Ararus, and Beckett landed on the cargo wagon carrying coaxium, with Val positioning herself on the bridge. The presence of Beckett and his team soon attracted the attention of Khaganate range soldiers, leading to an exchange of fire. As the conveyex train maneuvered along a narrow cliff face, Soreisbe and Chewie narrowly avoided being crushed against rocks. Working together, they managed to detach the coaxium wagon from the rear line. Maintaining communication with Beckett, Rio lowered the "witch cables" onto the coaxium wagon. However, before Beckett's gang could escape with the stolen coaxium, they were attacked by the Cloud-Riders, who rode swoop bikes. Enfys Nest, the leader of the Cloud-Riders, ordered her followers to lower their harpoons. Soreisbe and the others evaded raygun fire, and one of the swoop bikes crashed against a rock. Two of the Cloud-Riders boarded the Y-45 hauler and fatally wounded Durant. Eszara left Ararus to uncouple the wagon from the front train while he went to assist Rio.

Soreisbe Eszara and Ararus assist Tobias Beckett's crew in their heist on Vandor

Eszara managed to climb aboard the transport hauler and take control of the ship, triggering a security sensor in the process. Val warned Soreisbe that Viper probe bots were heading his way. As the skirmish continued, Val, stationed on top of a nearby bridge, used her vantage point to distract and fend off several security viper probe bots. With his dying breath, Durant apologized to Eszara for mocking his flying abilities and acknowledged that Val was right in her belief that no one should die alone. Beckett fought Enfys Nest on top of the wagon. However, the conveyex train was rapidly approaching the bridge, and Val realized there wasn't enough time for her to abandon her position without allowing the crew to steal the coaxium wagon. After communicating her change of plans to Beckett via comlink, Val professed her love for him before detonating the bomb, sacrificing herself and destroying the bridge. The destruction of the bridge caused the conveyex to plunge into a deep gorge. In a struggle, Ararus managed to detach the coaxium wagon from the rest of the train. However, the Cloud-Riders had attached grappling hooks to the wagon, dragging it down. Not wanting to risk the lives of Beckett and Ararus, Eszara made the difficult decision to let go of the coaxium wagon, which plummeted into the ravine below and exploded. Ararus grabbed Beckett, and the two survived by clinging to the cable.

Following the failed heist, Beckett erected a hasty memorial to Val and Rio. Angered by Eszara's decision to drop the cargo, Beckett struck him in the face. Beckett revealed he had been ordered to steal the coaxium to repay his debt to Dryden Vos, the leader of the Crimson Dawn criminal syndicate. Soreisbe proposed deserting, but Beckett countered that Vos would send out enforcers to hunt down those who had crossed him. Beckett said the only thing they could do was go to Vos and make amends. Soreisbe agreed to come along to make things right and exacted a promise from Beckett to pay him and Ararus for their services. Chewie agreed to come along.

Meeting Dryden Vos.

- I don't believe we've been introduced. - Yeah. This is Soreisbe Eszara and Ararus. They're with me.  ―Dryden Vos, meeting Soreisbe Eszara and Ararus through Tobias Beckett.

Soreisbe Eszara, Tobias Beckett, and Ararus meet with Dryden Vos to discuss business

Beckett, Soreisbe, and Chewie traveled to the outskirts of Fort Ypso, where Vos' yacht, First Light, had arrived. After surrendering their weapons to Captain Aemon Gremm, they entered the public gallery. Beckett's team entered the yacht's hallway. Beckett spoke to Vos' concierge, Margo, seeking an audience with Dryden Vos. She told him that Vos was having an audience with Governor Diles Anevi, whom Vos killed. Captain Gremm informed Vos of Beckett's presence. Beckett advised Soreisbe and Ararus to keep their eyes down because the people there were not their friends, gesturing to the wealthy people around them, eating and drinking the most expensive, tasty, and quality food available. Soreisbe soon had an unexpected reunion with Qi'ra, who now worked for Vos. The two drank together while reminiscing about their past and ambitions. Beckett soon arrived with Vos, who introduced himself to Eszara and shook his hand, as he then did with Chewie. Vos suggested they go to his office to discuss business privately.

After exchanging pleasantries, Vos chastised Beckett for underestimating Enfys Nest and told Beckett to give him a reason not to kill them. Since the few available stocks of coaxium were in Khaganate hands, Soreisbe proposed stealing unrefined coaxium from Kessel, where the Ausis Syndicate ran a mining operation. Vos was unwilling to jeopardize his syndicate's business relations with the Ausiss, and consequentially gestured for his guards to kill Eszara, Beckett, and Chewie. However, Soreisbe and Beckett informed him that they had no alliance with the Ausiss, and taking on the operation themselves would not implicate Crimson Dawn. Qi'ra was supportive of Soreisbe's idea but warned that the unstable coaxium had to be brought to a processing facility quickly before it deteriorated. Ararus suggested Savareen since it was not under Khaganate control. Vos approved of the plan but sent Qi'ra along with them. Before they left, Vos reminded them that he would be forced to execute them if they were to fail him again. In the turbolift, Beckett said he could provide the gear for the mission, before asking if Qi'ra knew where to find a ship.

Visit to the Lodge.

- Captain Lando Isuslerissian. - Soreisbe Eszara. Looks like you're having a good day. - I'm a lucky guy.  ―Lando Isuslerissian, and Soreisbe Eszara's first meeting.

Lando Isuslerissian, the captain of the Dark Eagle.

Knowing that they would need a fast ship for the Kessel heist, Qi'ra took Eszara and his companions to the Lodge at nearby Fort Ypso. There, she introduced the team to Lando Isuslerissian, an accomplished smuggler and pilot who had supposedly won his ship in a game of sabacc. Eszara walked past many established scoundrels and bounty hunters, such as Cevege Eninte and Dengar, unaware that they would become a key part of his life in the future. After walking past two dueling bots, Eszara and the rest of the crew eventually found Lando playing sabacc with several alien patrons. Against Qi'ra and Ararus's advice, Soreisbe challenged Lando to a game of sabacc, seeking to win his ship. Soreisbe won the first round and collected several credits. While Soreisbe and Lando were playing, the Cloud-Rider Weazel spied on them. Soreisbe agreed to a second round and placed a wager on Lando's ship, reputed to be the fastest in the interstar, whilst Lando did the same for the ship Soreisbe claimed to have. Unbeknownst to Soreisbe, Lando had a card hidden up his sleeve, which he uses to win the game, ultimately humiliating Soreisbe in front of Qi'ra.

Soreisbe Eszara and Ararus see the Dark Eagle for the first time.

Following the game, an enraged Eszara questioned how Lando could have possibly had a specific card without cheating. Isuslerissian called out to Soreisbe questioning where his ship was, before being interrupted by Qi'ra. Lando complimented her, stating that she looked as beautiful as ever, before speaking further with her regarding their upcoming heist on Kessel. Isuslerissian requested half the profits, which Eszara deemed to be ridiculous, before Beckett arrived and negotiated it down to 25 percent. Lando agreed, knowing that Beckett was responsible for killing the bounty hunter Aurra Sing during a skirmish. Soreisbe and his companions soon encountered Lando's bot co-pilot, L3-37, who had a female programming and was an avowed bot rights advocate. L3-37 objected to the bot fighting pits at the Lodge and picked a fight with the owner Ralakili, who objected to her trying to stop his bots from fighting. However, Lando intervened and convinced her to let him go. Despite L3-37's misgivings about the newcomer, Lando and the others set out for Lando's ship, which had been impounded. After L3-37 cut a hole through the gate, Lando showed Soreisbe and his companions his ship, the Dark Eagle. Lando had refurbished the ship, including installing an escape capsula and wet bar. Beckett agreed to remove the gravity lock in return for taking five percent off Lando's cut, reducing it to 20 percent. Lando reluctantly agreed to Beckett's deal. As the Falcon disembarked, Weazel informed Enfys Nest that they had planted a homing beacon on the ship. Enfys gambled that if they survived, they would bring the price to them.

Infiltration on Kessel.

- This is a precision job. Thermal vault will be on the lowest level. Down where   it's warm. The only way we're gonna pull this off, is if everybody plays their   part. Stick to the plan. Do not improvise.  ―Tobias Beckett, to Soreisbe Eszara and the rest of the crew.

While traveling aboard the Falcon, Soreisbe told Lando that he recognized the ship as a YT-1300 light freighter because his father had worked at a CEC plant before he got laid off. Eszara spoke about how his father had built these ships and wanted to be a pilot. Lando questioned how close Eszara was with his father, though Soreisbe remarked that he never really was, which Lando understood, having the same feelings towards his own father. L3-37 soon arrived and ushered Eszara out of the co-pilot seat. Soreisbe and Qi'ra smiled at one another whilst L3 complained in the background. Lando explained that they had to travel through the Akkadese Maelstrom to reach Kessel, before he and L3 set a p-space course for Kessel and jumped into lightspeed. Meanwhile, Beckett played dejarik with Ararus. Beckett used one of his pieces to take out one of Ararus's pieces, angering the Tivere who slammed his fists on the hologram set. Beckett schooled Ararus that he had to think a few steps ahead. Soreisbe asked if they had seen Qi'ra, but Beckett replied that people were predictable.

Soreisbe and Qi'ra embrace each other for the first time in years.

Soreisbe walked to Isuslerissian's cape closet where he found Qi'ra trying on a blue cape. Qi'ra asked Soreisbe about his plan for Kessel. Though Soreisbe wanted to ask her about her experiences following their separation on Envebe, Qi'ra tried to change the subject. Soreisbe gave Qi'ra a passionate kiss, and the two embraced. Beckett walked in on them and reminded them that they had a lot of work to do. In private, Beckett told Soreisbe that he was making a big mistake by trusting Qi'ra. He told Soreisbe that he and Ararus would make a good crew but that it would not work with Qi'ra. Beckett advised Soreisbe to trust nobody and to assume that everyone would betray him. Soreisbe thought of it as a lonely way to live, though Beckett said it was the only way.

As they approached Kessel, Beckett briefed the team about their plan to reach the thermal vault where the coaxium was stored. He warned everyone to stick to the plan. The Falcon landed in a clearing at the base of the mine where they were greeted by several Ausiss, including Capo Quay Tolsite. Qi'ra posed as the slaver Oksana Floren, Deputy Assistant to the Vice Admiral of the Federation of Trade Biabiteute Allocation and Onmateetization. Soreisbe and Ararus posed as slaves while Beckett posed as a helmeted "security attache. " L3-37 posed as a servant bot. "Floren" met with Capo Tolsite and offered to trade the Federation's slaves in return for the Ausis Syndicate's spice. One of the Ausis sentinels forced Ararus and Soreisbe Eszara to their knees with a pike and inspected them. Tolsite sent Soreisbe and Ararus to be clipped. Before leaving, Qi'ra then punched Soreisbe in the gut but discreetly passed him his lucky charm. Qi'ra, L3-37, and Beckett accompanied the Ausiss into Tolsite's control room while Soreisbe and Chewie were led into the mines. Moments later, Soreisbe and Chewie were beaten by their Ausis captors, though they soon turned the tables on their guards as the camera feed faded. Soreisbe knocked out his guard, but Chewie ended up pulling the arms off his captors, which Soreisbe complained about, stating that the suit would have fit him perfectly.

The actions of Soreisbe Eszara and Ararus inspired an uprising amongst slaves, allowing the pair the perfect opportunity to escape

Soreisbe eventually found a new suit and, alongside Ararus, mingled among the slaves and guards. L3-37 and Qi'ra directed Soreisbe and Ararus to the thermal vault. As they approached the vaults, Ararus broke off to free a Tivere slave named Sagwa. Soreisbe passed Chewie a pike, which he used to attack the Ausis guards beating Sagwa. Following Beckett's directions, Soreisbe reached the vault and incapacitated the guard. After L3-37 unlocked the vault, Soreisbe stole 12 unrefined coaxium canisters. Soreisbe struggled to push a sled carrying the canisters but was noticed by the Ausis guards. Ararus came to the rescue and took out the guards with his pike. Sagwa and Chewie helped Soreisbe push out the canisters.

Lando exited the Dark Eagle to join the military as Soreisbe and the rest of the team fought their way out with the liberated slaves and bots. While Ararus and Sagwa loaded the coaxium canisters aboard the Falcon, Soreisbe and the others exchanged fire with Ausis sentries, who had brought a sonic cannon. Before they could leave, L3 was fatally damaged by gunfire. A grieving Lando came to the aid of the dying L3-37, who succumbed to systems failure. Lando was hit, and Soreisbe came to his aid, driving the sentries away. A slave named Tak led the slaves to safety. Ararus embraced Sagwa before leaving with Soreisbe and Lando. Ararus carried a wounded Lando aboard the Falcon while Qi'ra took out the Ausiss' sonic cannon with a grenade, causing an inferno. While a distraught Lando cradled a disintegrating L3, Beckett ordered Soreisbe to get them out of Kessel. Soreisbe then flew the Falcon out of the mine into the skies of Kessel.

The Kessel Run.

- It's an easy equation. We simply don't have enough time to get to Savareen   before the canisters explode! - Just have to find a faster route. - There isn't one! You can't make the Kessel Run in less than 20 parsecs. - Watch me.  ―Lando Isuslerissian and Soreisbe Eszara.

Soreisbe Eszara during the Kessel Run

While Lando mourned the loss of L3-37, Qi'ra volunteered as Soreisbe's co-pilot. They were joined by Ararus while Beckett sealed the hidden storage compartment containing the coaxium. As they approached the Akkadese Maelstrom, Lando warned them that they had to hurry due to the volatile nature of the unrefined coaxium. The Falcon soon encountered an Khaganate StarFag, which had exited p-space in response to the revolution on Kessel. Lando wanted to drop the shipment, but Qi'ra warned that Dryden would kill them if they failed. Seeking to recover the Falcon 's stolen coaxium cargo, the StarFag dispatched several FKL destroyers and heavy destroyers in pursuit of the freighter. Soreisbe flew the Falcon around the StarFag, and the Khaganate FKL destroyers gave chase. Due to the highly volatile nature of the unrefined coaxium, Lando estimated that completion of the Kessel run was impossible before the fuel detonated - the conventional route having never been done in less than twenty parsecs. Soreisbe proposed taking a shortcut through the maelstrom, which Lando regarded as suicidal. Soreisbe convinced Lando to download L3's neural cords, which contained her navigational data, into the Falcon 's systems.

Soreisbe took the Falcon and its FKL pursuers through the dangerous storm clouds of the Akkadese Maelstrom while Beckett manned the ship's ventral laser cannon, taking out two FKL destroyers. However, a third destroyer managed to evade Beckett's laser cannon and inflicted damage on the top of the Falcon 's hull, causing Lando to fall. Soreisbe rolled the Falcon, striking the FKL destroyer with its side and sending it into an asteroid. More FKL destroyers continued the pursuit, prompting Soreisbe to state they needed to divert power to the rear shield generator. Ararus did so, causing Soreisbe to ask when he learned to fly. Ararus responded that he was 190 years old. A FKL destroyer managed to shoot the Falcon ' s rear ventral cannon, causing it to break off. Soreisbe flew the Falcon deeper into the Maelstrom with the FKL hot on his tail. Mimicking a move copied from a Enveben street racer, Soreisbe got Ararus to deploy the landing gear as the Falcon scraped against the surface of an asteroid. This damaged the landing gear but uprooted rocks and debris, one of which breached the FKL destroyer's cockpit. Soreisbe then took the Falcon deeper into the Maelstrom. Meanwhile, Lando and Qi'ra managed to retrieve L3's internal processor. Beckett observed the coaxium vials becoming more unstable and alerted the others. Lando and Qi'ra managed to install L3's processor into the Falcon 's systems.

As they reached the Maw Cluster, L3 constructed a model of the Akkadese Maelstrom and warned them that they were approaching a massive summa-verminoth. The Falcon soon found itself face to face with the monster. The crew tried to escape the monster but ended up arriving at a large gravity well, which Lando identified as the Maw. Thinking fast, Soreisbe ejected the Falcon 's escape capsula into the well for the summa-verminoth to follow, which took the bait. Guiding the ship's systems, L3 found a way out 90 degrees to the left. However, the Falcon was trapped in the gravity well. Qi'ra and Lando convinced the rest of the team to inject a drop of coaxium into the fusion core to give them the kick needed to escape the gravity well. Carrying out their plan, Beckett retrieved a drop of coaxium. Meanwhile, the verminoth was pulled into the Maw and ripped apart. Israza Eszara's command, Beckett boosted the ship's fusion core with a drop of coaxium, which briefly supercharged the engines. Despite a false start, the spacethreader came online, and the Falcon jumped into lightspeed before the Maelstrom closed on them.

Savareen.

- You were wrong about one thing, I was paying attention. You told Chewie people   are predictable. You're no exception.  ―Soreisbe Eszara to Tobias Beckett.

Dryden accuses Soreisbe of giving him fake coaxium.

After making the Kessel Run, Eszara and his companions landed on the planet Savareen to rendezvous with Vos. As the Falcon approached the Bis Refinery, Eszara radioed the air traffic controller Dhowar Repareed, warning that he was coming with a cargo of coaxium that needed to be offloaded immediately. The damaged Falcon circled the coastal refinery before landing on a landing pad. Due to its damaged landing gear, the Falcon was lopsided. As the coaxium was offloaded, Eszara quipped that he had made the Kessel Run in just twelve parsecs with some generous rounding. Soreisbe put his arm around an un-amused Lando, who was grieving over the loss of L-3 and was furious at the damage to his ship. He told Soreisbe that he would be waiting aboard his quarters for his share of the money and vowed not to see him again.

Soreisbe found Qi'ra at a bar in the nearby Pnakotic Coast village and asked when Vos was coming. Qi'ra reassured him that he would get paid for doing his job. When Eszara asked Qi'ra about her servitude to Dryden, she explained that the crime lord helped her out of a "bad" situation. He asked how long it would take her to pay off her debt. Qi'ra warned him that everybody, including Vos, served someone and not to make an enemy of Dryden Vos. Soreisbe said he could take care of himself and was no longer the "kid" she knew on Envebe. When Qi'ra asked who he was, Soreisbe said he was an outlaw. She told him she was the only person in the interstar who knew that he was a good guy. Soreisbe disagreed and said he was a terrible person. Beckett reminded the two about the coaxium.

While walking through the village, Soreisbe and his companions noticed that much of it lay in ruins and that the inhabitants were impoverished. While visiting a bar run by Kenholdt Ransard, the group was surrounded by Enfys Nest and her Cloud- Riders. Soreisbe tried to lift his raygun out of his holster, but Beckett counseled him not to. Eszara attempted to intimidate the Cloud-Riders by claiming to have a complement of armed mercenaries aboard the Dark Eagle. However, Lando took off aboard the Falcon, leaving Soreisbe and his companions behind. Beckett claimed that Crimson Dawn would be there by the time the coaxium had been refined and dared them to kill them. Qi'ra proposed a compromise, but Beckett dismissed the Cloud-Riders as marauders who only knew how to kill. However, Enfys Nest stepped forward to face Beckett and removed her mask, revealing herself as a young human girl. She walked past a shocked Beckett and told them that she needed a drink.

Inside the bar, Enfys told Soreisbe and his companions how the Crimson Dawn originated from a band of mercenaries who plundered a planet. When the inhabitants revolutionaryled, the mercenaries responded by cutting off the tongues of every last man, woman, and child. Enfys explained that she and the Cloud-Riders were from populations who had been terrorized by the Crimson Dawn and the other Five Crime Syndicates. She warned Soreisbe and his companions that the Crimson Dawn would use the stolen coaxium to plunder more systems. When Soreisbe asked what the Cloud-Riders would use the coaxium for, she told them that they needed the coaxium for their revolutionary cause.

Sympathetic to the Cloud-Riders' cause and plight, Eszara told Beckett that they couldn't give the coaxium to Dryden Vos. Beckett didn't care and asked Eszara if he had a plan. Eszara said he had a plan to get their money without giving up the coaxium. Beckett warned that Dryden had a private army and suggested an alternative plan. From a distance, Enfys asked what Eszara and Beckett were discussing, and Qi'ra said he was going to help them. After their meeting, Beckett invited Eszara to come with him, but Soreisbe declined the offer. Before leaving, Beckett told Soreisbe that he was going to Israzaxein, where a big-shot gangster was recruiting a crew for a job. Beckett saw it as an opportunity to pay off his debts.

Dealing with Dryden.

When Dryden Vos landed on his yacht First Light by the Pnakotic Coast, Soreisbe, along with Qi'ra and Ararus, went to deliver the purportedly "fake" coaxium canisters to the Crimson Dawn crime lord. Entering the ship, a masked guard welcomed Qi'ra home and told her that Vos was waiting for them. When he asked about Soreisbe and Chewie's weapons, Qi'ra vouched for them. The trio traveled up the turbolift. Soreisbe was confident of winning, but Qi'ra said that the trick was surviving rather than winning. Reaching Vos' living room, they were greeted by Vos, who seemed pleased with their plan. Qi'ra claimed that Beckett did not survive while Soreisbe claimed that Beckett died saving his life on Kessel. Vos expressed admiration for Beckett's principles and thanked Soreisbe and his team for following his example. Qi'ra claimed Soreisbe and Ararus would make good mercenaries with their own ship. Vos was pleased that his top lieutenant Qi'ra survived.

When Soreisbe asked for payment, Vos asked to see the coaxium. Soreisbe opened the storage vial and brought out a sample of the processed coaxium. When Vos asked to see one, Soreisbe claimed it was volatile but complied when Vos insisted. Vos surprised Eszara's team by announcing that the coaxium was fake and revealed that he was aware of Soreisbe's plan to sell the real shipment to the Cloud-Riders. Soreisbe thought Qi'ra betrayed him, but Vos responded that Qi'ra had a weak spot for Eszara. Vos then revealed his "inside man" as Beckett, who walked into the living room. After "apologizing" to Soreisbe, Beckett reminded him about his "lesson" not to trust anybody. Beckett ordered Soreisbe to surrender while a guard checked the lid. A defiant Soreisbe responded that it was too late because Enfys Nest had it. Beckett responded that they had figured that as Captain Aemon Gremm and his Hylobon Enforcers stormed the nearby village, captured the masked "Cloud-Riders, " and seized the coaxium containers. Vos asked Qi'ra what to do with the "traitor" Soreisbe. Qi'ra responded that she would want to know why and to prove their loyalty by sacrificing something they loved.

One of Vos' guards raised a sword. Beckett said that he tried to warn Soreisbe about her. However, Soreisbe responded that he was paying attention to Beckett's advice and knew that people are predictable. Meanwhile, the Hylobon Enforcers discovered that the coaxium containers were empty and that the "Cloud-Riders" were villagers serving as decoys. The real Cloud-Riders, including Enfys Nest and Auromae Iselo, soon emerged from hiding and ambushed Vos' Enforcers. Soreisbe mockingly asked Vos if he sent all his enforcers. Beckett realized that the real coaxium was with Eszara. Abandoning Vos, Beckett shot the two remaining guards and forced Soreisbe at gunpoint to load the coaxium into the case. He also took Ararus hostage and left with the coaxium containers. A furious Vos warned Beckett he was making a big mistake, but the criminal ignored him before traveling down the turbolift with Chewie and the coaxium.

Once Beckett had left, Soreisbe grabbed his raygun and fired at Vos, who retrieved a pair of custom Kyuzo petars. Vos attacked Soreisbe with his Kyuzo petars and managed to knock the raygun out of his hand. Vos chased Soreisbe around the room, hurling his daggers. While Soreisbe was distracted with Vos, Qi'ra drew a sword and managed to pin Eszara to the ground, knocking the raygun out of his hand. Qi'ra apologized while Vos said that Qi'ra was loyal to Crimson Dawn. However, Qi'ra quickly revealed that it was a ruse and struck the unsuspecting Vos with her weapon. Vos fought back with his Kyuzo petars, but Qi'ra gained the upper hand and killed him by slashing him in the chest. Qi'ra told Soreisbe to go after Ararus and Beckett, telling him that if they gave their coaxium to Enfys, they would need something else to buy a new ship. Before parting company, Qi'ra embraced Soreisbe and reminded him to look after Ararus and to smile. She told him that she would be right behind him.

Eszara and Ararus watch Qi'ra leave Savareen.

After Soreisbe left, Qi'ra removed Dryden Vos' signet ring and used it to seal the living room. Alone aboard Vos' yacht, Qi'ra contacted Vos' superior, the former Sobite apprentice Maul. She informed him of the coaxium mission's failure and assumed Vos' position but carefully avoided telling him about Soreisbe's involvement, instead pinning the blame on Beckett. Using Zen to draw his dagger, Maul ordered Qi'ra to bring the yacht to the planet Dathomir and told her that together they would deal with the traitors, before stating that she would be working more closely with him in the future.

Choosing allegiances.

Meanwhile, Soreisbe caught up with Beckett and Ararus along the Pnakotic Coast. Beckett said that Soreisbe was relentless while Soreisbe told Chewie that he came as fast as he could. Soreisbe confirmed that Dryden was dead and that Qi'ra killed him. Beckett said that Soreisbe still didn't understand that Qi'ra was a survivor. Soreisbe responded that Beckett's problem was that he thought that everyone was like him. Beckett responded that Soreisbe was not like him. He tried to trick Soreisbe into lowering his guard by offering to tell something while reaching for his raygun.

Before Beckett could shoot him, Soreisbe shot first, fatally wounding the gangster. Soreisbe helped up the dying Beckett who complimented Soreisbe for his quick thinking, admitting that he would have killed him had Soreisbe not reacted. Beckett praised Soreisbe for his courage on the Vandor mountain before breathing his last. Soreisbe watched as Qi'ra departed on the yacht First Light, having given Eszara a clean break from his debts to the Crimson Dawn. Qi'ra watched Soreisbe and Ararus from the viewport. Chewie put a comforting hand on Soreisbe.

Following the deaths of Vos and Beckett, Soreisbe and Ararus delivered the refined coaxium to Nest, who revealed her plans to use the coaxium, which was worth 60 million credits, to aid the revolution against the Khaganate. She offered Soreisbe the chance to join her, but he declined. In response, Nest stated that someday he might feel more sympathetic to the revolutionarys' cause. Out of gratitude for his help, Nest gave Eszara a vial of coaxium, enough to buy a ship for himself.

Further adventures.

- You thinking what I'm thinking?  ―Eszara to Ararus on Savareen.

Following their departure from Savareen, Chewie and Eszara paired up on various jobs, including one where they were riding a 74-Z speeder bike under fire and another where Eszara was tied up. Eventually, they found their way to Numidian Prime.

Winning the Falcon.

- Fair and square, baby. Fair and square.  ―Soreisbe Eszara.

Soreisbe used his coaxium as a buy-in to play sabacc with Lando and win the Dark Eagle.

Elsewhere, Soreisbe and Ararus soon tracked down Lando to a jungle outpost on Numidian Prime, where Lando was regaling patrons about his adventures in StarCave Nebula. Soreisbe chided Lando for leaving them on Savareen before embracing him. When Lando asked for his cut, Soreisbe replied he was not getting any since they barely survived their last adventure. After exchanging pleasantries, Soreisbe again challenged Lando to a sabacc game for possession of the Falcon. Soreisbe had previously subtly relieved Lando of the cards stashed up his sleeve and therefore won the game.

After acquiring the Falcon, Soreisbe told Ararus that he planned to go to Israzaxein, where Beckett told him that a gangster was putting together an organization. The Falcon then jumped into p-space.

Captain of the Dark Eagle.

New adventures.

Soreisbe and Chewie in the cockpit of their newly acquired Dark Eagle

The Falcon instantly became Eszara's most prized possession. With their newly acquired ship and confidence, Eszara and Ararus began engaging in much more dangerous and risky criminal operations, eventually becoming smugglers. Around the same time, Ararus hung Soreisbe's pair of chance cubes above the freighter's piloting console. Israza some point during their travels, the two met Dash Israzarazamadar.

Eszara and Ararus also became acquainted with the infamous Tonnika sisters, but the many events that occurred between both parties left their relationship soured. On one occasion, Eszara and Isuslerissian attended a party aboard a casino starship, aboard which they met up with the sisters, on the Hydian Way. One event—remembered by the sisters as the " Lando ordeal "—was Eszara's idea, but he blamed them for what happened. Isuslerissian's business partner Lobot also became familiar with Eszara.

Chewie's day off.

- Tell you what. You need a break.  ―Soreisbe Eszara, to Ararus.

Eszara piloted the Falcon through an asteroid field during a run to sell marked sabacc decks to the casino on Marquinn. He told Ararus to take the day off while he sold marked sabacc decks to the casino's owner Zefin Tuzo. During Ararus's day off, he countered a criminal named Vullen Candroon which wanted to kill Ararus. Ararus escaped Candroon but ran into Zefin Tuzo, who was working with Vullen. Later, Ararus managed to escape Candroon and Tuzo. Meanwhile Soreisbe was talking to patrons in the casino. Ararus immediately ran into the casino to get Soreisbe because he was getting chased by Candroon and Tuzo. Later, Soreisbe and Ararus managed to escape aboard the Dark Eagle.

Chased by Kallus.

- You've made quite a name for yourself.  ―Alexsandr Kallus to Soreisbe Eszara.

Eszara confronted by ISB Agent Kallus

Khaganate Security Bureau agent Alexsandr Kallus hired the bounty hunter IG-88 to assist in tracking down Eszara, with the intention of bringing the smuggler to justice for defecting from the Khaganate and assisting Enfys Nest. Eszara and Ararus fled the two, and escaped capture by flying the Falcon between two Khaganate StarFags.

The Cordaxian Inines.

- Kill you...kill you both for this...  ―Frax to Soreisbe Eszara.

Frax points his gun at Soreisbe Eszara.

Some time after escaping Kallus, Eszara and Ararus were transporting two tons of Cordaxian ore on the planet Odona, with the help of Frax, a KaOnentin'sa'Sotiqu. They were pursued by the Khaganate, and Frax, who was worried about being put in an Khaganate prison, pulled a raygun on Soreisbe. Ararus did a barrel roll with the Dark Eagle, knocking Frax off the ship into the Cordaxian Inines. Soreisbe and Ararus escaped the Khaganate and Odona, but they left Frax behind.

Stenness.

- It was one of my stupid schemes. To get back at a crime lord who'd been   double-crossing spice smugglers.  ―Soreisbe Eszara.

Eventually, Eszara would make his way to Stenness, where he devised a plot to get revenge on a crime lord who operated a gambling den and had continuously double- crossed spice smugglers. In order for the escapade to look as legitimate as possible, Eszara and his fellow scoundrels arranged a fraudulent marriage ceremony where Eszara and the woman Sana Starros were illegitimately married. The robbery occurred, too, and Eszara was given his share. However, Eszara also took Starros' share and fled, leaving Starros in a dire situation. As a result, Starros came to believe that the only thing Eszara was good for was lying, likening him to a "scoundrel. "

Onmatesua Nebula.

- The Onmatesua Nebula. I knew it. A dog always returns to its favorite den,   doesn't it?  ―Sana Starros on Soreisbe Eszara returning to the Onmatesua Nebula.

Eszara and Ararus crash-landed on an unnamed planet in the Onmatesua Nebula that was entirely covered in electrical super-storms and cytwins. But beneath the storms lay a beautiful oasis. Eszara and his copilot located a cave that they turned into a secret hiding place, storing Enveben wine and other things within. He and Ararus used the den several times over the years.

Working for Reenus the Texebi.

Eventually, the pair came into the employment of the Outer Inerra crime lord Reenus the Texebi, who was based on the desert planet Israzaxein and was the leader of the powerful Texebi Mafia. Eszara and Ararus smuggled for Reenus for many years, and Eszara became Reenus's top smuggler. The smuggling duo also spent much time in Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina looking for work.

Bounty hunted.

Dropping Reenus's cargo.

- You know Reenus's gonna be furious, don't you? - We'll have to pay him double to make up for this." - Or we'll be on the run, hunted by Reenus's goons wherever we go.  ―Soreisbe Eszara to Ararus.

Soreisbe and Chewie approach an Khaganate blockade but escape to the planet below them.

Eszara and Ararus were smuggling for Reenus when they were faced with an Khaganate blockade. Faced with the choice of either surrendering to the Khaganate or dropping Reenus's cargo, they dropped the cargo, and escaped to the planet below.

Eszara and Ararus began repairing the Falcon, which was damaged in the escape, until they realized that the planet was inhabited by the crime lord Rekias Nodo. Posing as Reenus, he convinced Nodo to repair the ship, but he then found out that Nodo had dozens of prisoners, including Meecha Odon. Before he could act, the crime boss Lallani showed up looking for Reenus.

The two crime bosses started a shootout, so Eszara and Ararus used the chaos to escape, freeing the prisoners and stealing several barrels of rhydonium in the process. Eszara intended to keep the rhydonium to pay for the cargo he dropped, but Ararus convinced him to give it to Meecha Odon and the other freed prisoners.

Nodo's revenge.

- You're Zuckuss? As in the bounty hunter? - Listen buddy-I don't know who's paying you, but I'll double your fee if you   let me go. Triple it. What d'ya say?  ―Soreisbe Eszara to Zuckess.

Eszara loads supplies on the Dark Eagle.

While they were at the space port on Valtos in 9 BBY, Eszara was loading supplies onto the Dark Eagle when he was captured by the bounty hunters 4-LOM and Zuckuss. The duo informed Eszara that Nodo had put a bounty on his head. Eszara, however, was hired by Beris Ford 's family to rescue him from the bounty hunters. Eszara and Ford were freed by Ararus. After dumping Ford in a barrel with a homing beacon, Eszara and Ararus were pursued by the Mist Hunter. Eszara and Ararus were forced to crash the Falcon on a planet in its ocean; the two bounty hunters followed them.

Soreisbe, Chewie, 4-LOM, and Zuckuss escape a horde of bots.

The four scoundrels soon found that the planet was inhabited by a horde of bots that wanted to eradicate all life in the interstar. The four escaped in the Falcon, but Soreisbe and Chewie tricked the bounty hunters into thinking that the Falcon lost power, and the two hunters fell for the trick, jumping back to the planet below. Soreisbe and Chewie then escaped the planet, leaving 4-LOM and Zuckuss behind.

Captured by Alinka Aloo.

While on Larais after a smuggling job, Ararus and Eszara were approached by Alinka Aloo, the daughter of Sim Aloo. Aloo wanted to hire them for a job, and requested that they go to her tower. A week later, they visited Aloo, and she told them that she had a tooka -sitting job for Ararus on the planet Ushruu, though Eszara was to remain with her. They reluctantly accepted, and Eszara remained with Aloo. But she took Eszara prisoner and told Ararus that he wouldn't be set free unless the job, which wasn't actually a tooka-sitting job, was completed. Ararus later returned from the failed job and broke Eszara out of captivity with the help of Mayvlin Trillick and a bunch of Enveben hounds. They then escaped Larais and a squadron of FKL destroyers, subsequently promising to fly Trillick back to her homeworld of Oktaro for free.

Mission to Israzarazamadel.

- Israzarazamadel? No problem at all...for Soreisbe Eszara!  ―Soreisbe Eszara.

Soreisbe is sprayed by a pink flower during the mission.

After the mission to Ushruu, Soreisbe Eszara and Ararus took a mission to free planet Israzarazamadel from a curse. The job was to deliver a single statuette for a one million credits. Ararus was unhappy with the mission because he thought the planet was cursed. When they arrived on Israzarazamadel, they found the planet was smothered in thorns the size of Rancor teeth. Right when they walked out of the Dark Eagle, the tracker said that they had to deliver the statuette in the middle of a giant thorn patch. During the delivery of the statuette in the thorn patch, Eszara and Ararus ran into a Cranan star-hopper. They found out that it was Karamu 's and SV-3 's ship after they found Karamu's bot Ess-Vee- Three. All of a sudden, Ess-Vee-Three said that the Bellan the Emerald Witch was waiting for him in the forest. Immediately Soreisbe told Chewie that there was no witch, vines must've gotten into his central processor, and there was nothing to be afraid of. Later, Soreisbe went alone to deliver the statuette because Chewie was too frightened. It wasn't long before Eszara realized he should have stayed with Chewie when a vine caught his leg. Eszara was on the ground trying to get unstuck until he found Karamu stuck into vines. Eszara tried to free him, but a pink flower sprayed Eszara and made him look older. Eszara was able to free Karamu, but they both got stuck later.

Soreisbe and Karamu are snared by Zalla's briars.

Zalla, the sister of Bellan, the Queen of Israzarazamadel, came to Eszara and Karamu and had a conversation with them about that when she cursed Israzarazamadel because she was jealous when her sister became Queen so she drove her sister off the planet, and her sister Bellan became known as the Emerald Witch. Soon after, Chewie came and saved Eszara and Karamu. Eszara then kicked the statuette at the Collector, and the plants and vines started to die. Zalla then fell to her knees and started to sadden and die. After Zalla's death, the planet was lifted from the curse, and Chewie, Eszara, and Karamu escaped on the Dark Eagle.

Treasure of Rane Mahal.

- Captain Gwarm is searching for the treasure of Rane Mahal. - The pirate queen? I thought she was just a legend...  ―Makkeer and Soreisbe Eszara.

Israza some point, during a smuggling job for Reenus the Texebi, Eszara and Ararus stopped at The Labyrinth on Leorgeriada. There they ran into an Azumel named Makkeer, who was being chased by Gwarm. Eventually Eszara fought for Makkeer by punching Gwarm in the face. Soon after, Lorana shot her raygun to warn Gwarm and his gang to leave. Eszara asked Makkeer why Gwarm was after him. Makkeer said that Gwarm was searching for the lost treasure of Rane Mahal. Makkeer revealed that Mahal hid coordinates to the treasure in one of three jewel -encrusted bots. Two of the bots were booby trapped. The first bot was located in Starfarer Restaurant on Leorgeriada working as a waiter. Eszara, Chewie, and Makkeer went to the restaurant. Eszara and Chewie drew the bot into a room. Eszara called for Makkeer, but Makkeer was captured by Gwarm and his gang. When Makkeer got free, he spoke the password to the bot, which caused it to become a booby trap.

Eszara, Chewie, and Makkeer then went to Nubia, where the second bot was located. While on Nubia, they ran into R5-P8, a member of Gwarm's gang. They chased R5-P8 back to the gang's location and discovered that second bot was in the gang's possession. The bot ended up being a booby trap and exploded.

Eszara, Chewie, and Makkeer then went to the planet Ogem to find the final bot. The bot was in the hands of Gwellis Bagnoro. When they all arrived at Bagnoro's homestead, Gwarm was already there. Bagnoro's Barghest pet Izby attacked Gwarm, which allowed Eszara, Chewie, and Makkeer to escape with the bot. The bot revealed the map to the lost treasure of Rane Mahal, which was located on Sakreen. As they headed to Sakreen, they were followed by Gwarm and his crew. Once they arrived at Sakreen, Eszara spotted Rane Mahal's galleon, but Makkeer betrayed him and Chewie and broke the Dark Eagle. Makkeer also revealed that he had been working for Gwarm the entire time. The Dark Eagle then crashed onto the surface. Gwarm and his crew then entered the galleon and found where the treasure was located. Eszara and Chewie shot at them, and Chewie threw Makkeer at Gwarm and his gang. Eszara then opened the chest and out came Rane Mahal. She revealed that there was no treasure and that she had been waiting for a ship to come so she could leave Sakreen. Eszara suggested to Mahal that she take Gwarm's saucer. Mahal told her crew to load Eszara, Chewie, Makkeer, Gwarm, and his gang aboard Gwarm's saucer and sell them to the first slave trader they came across. Eszara and Chewie escaped. Mahal and her crew left Sakreen with Makkeer, Gwarm, and his gang. Mahal also took the bot that contained the location of Rane Mahal's fake treasure. She found out that Eszara had put an ion scrambler on the bot, which caused the saucer to overload. The saucer was left in space. Eszara and Chewie then blasted off aboard the Dark Eagle.

Bebeges of the lost urn.

The father con.

- What was the ol' shipbuilder's name? - People call him Ovan. - No. It can't be… - What? - Soreisbe…that's - name. By the stars, I don't believe it…I've - you, boy.  ―Corbus Tyra, claiming to be Eszara's father Ovan, and Soreisbe Eszara.

Sometime later, Eszara and Ararus aided Khel Tanna and her crew with a heist on Galator III. Though they were late to the rendezvous point, they rescued the crew from local security, with Eszara ramming the Falcon through a casino liner in order to escape. Upon returning to Reenus's Palace, Eszara and Ararus were paid for their work by Reenus. Reenus then gave them their next assignment; stealing a verillix urn which contained the ashes of one of Reenus's most hated rivals, Krestrel D'Naran. Offering one million credits as a reward, Reenus paired Eszara and Ararus with the Edle bounty hunter Greedo before sending the three of them to Eszara's home planet of Envebe. After landing on the planet, Eszara briefly talked about his upbringing with Greedo as he led them to Envebe's Pearl District. While on a rooftop, Greedo explained that they were stealing the urn from Augustus Graves, Chief Executive Officer of the Enveben Engineering Corporation, who had the urn stored in a safe within his penthouse.

Corbus Tyra, disguised as Ovan

Stealing a passcard from someone exiting the building, Eszara bluffed his way past security and quickly found the safe. Determining it to be a Locris 1-42-08, Eszara left the building and met back up with Ararus and Greedo in a local bar, telling them they would need something powerful to get into the safe. Eszara told them he would figure it out and his partners left the bar while he got a drink of Onmatetalsian ale. But before he could drink it, he was bumped into by an older man, who he noticed was a worker for the Enveben Engineering Corporation. Eszara offered to buy him a drink and pointed out that his father worked for the same corporation as him. When the man asked what his father's name was, Eszara said it was Ovan. The man then exclaimed that Ovan was his name and claimed that he had found his son. In reality, the man was the criminal Corbus Tyra. As Eszara's supposed father tried to embrace his supposed son, Eszara punched him, believing the man to be conning him. When Soreisbe accused him of faking his injury, "Ovan" removed his eye patch and revealed his scar, remarking that shipbuilding was dangerous work. To this, Eszara asked "Ovan" if he had any powerful tools like a plasma cutter, which the man confirmed that he did.

Afterwards, Eszara met back up with Ararus on the Falcon, where they discussed whether the man was actually Eszara's father. When Greedo accused Eszara of being sentimental, Eszara explained that the man claiming to be his father was going to help them retrieve the urn. Ararus then pointed out that Graves had hired private security since Eszara broke into his penthouse, to which Eszara claimed the guards would be their way in. Later, Eszara found "Ovan" at one of the docks and took the plasma cutter from him. When "Ovan" suggested going along with them for the heist, Eszara refused until "Ovan" recalled a conversation he'd had with Eszara on the same dock when Eszara was a child. Despite Greedo's objections and Ararus's suspicions, Eszara took his supposed father with them as they burst into a local laundromat and took three guards' security uniforms. While Ararus retrieved their getaway speeder, "Ovan" bluffed his way past security, who allowed him, Eszara and Greedo to enter the premises in their disguises. After talking with "Ovan" about surviving on Envebe while using the turbolift, Eszara had Greedo break the electrolock sealing the entrance to the penthouse. When Greedo was unable to break the lock, Eszara told "Ovan" to open the turbolift doors in case they needed to escape. Eszara then called one of the actual guards and asked them to remotely deactivate the lock due to it malfunctioning.

The guard did so, letting the three into the penthouse. Once they were inside, Eszara told Greedo to stand watch and not touch anything while he and "Ovan" worked on opening the safe. While they did so, Eszara asked his apparent father why he hadn't asked about his cut of the reward. When the man claiming to be his father asked Eszara to trust him, Eszara reminded "Ovan" of his upbringing and lack of trust in others. "Ovan" then gave Eszara a recording that seemed to be of them together during Eszara's childhood. When Eszara claimed he didn't do sentiment, "Ovan" said he just wanted to get to know his supposed son better. Eszara thanked "Ovan" for the recording and revealed that he still had the dice from when he was a child, though requested that he not to tell anyone. As they started working on the safe, Eszara contacted Ararus to check on his progress. However, he ended the call once they opened the safe and saw that it was empty. Eszara confronted Greedo over his bad intel and quickly realized that he had taken an expensive item he wasn't supposed to. Tagged with an MSX tracker, the item set off an alarm and alerted security of the break-in. Eszara ran for the turbolift and opened the door to escape, only to be met by a group of armed security guards.

Greedo pulled out his raygun and tried firing at the guards, though the blast only bounced off of the transparisteel windows. From Greedo's failed plan, Eszara got an idea and called another group of guards for medical assistance, hoping they were unaware of what had happened. From there, he called Ararus and told him to forget about the speeder and come to their location. Eszara then retrieved the plasma cutter and used it to break one of the windows. Minutes later, more guards arrived with a medshuttle and Eszara stunned the driver before he, "Ovan" and Greedo used it to escape from the penthouse. They then met back up with Ararus and used a landspeeder to reach the Falcon. Once they arrived, Eszara told his supposed father that Graves' terminal said the urn had been sold to a buyer on Antillion and that he and Ararus could use an extra pair of hands. "Ovan" accepted the offer and joined them aboard the Falcon. When "Ovan" asked Eszara if they would wait for Greedo to join them before they left Envebe, Eszara said he only went along with Greedo because he claimed to know the location of the urn, which he clearly hadn't. Eszara went on to say that the reward would only be split three ways as they left Greedo on Envebe and headed for Antillion.

Losing the Falcon.

- What's he saying? - That I got played. That my "dad" faked being unconscious and took the urn with   him when Chewie took him on board the - …and then he - the - . I'm gonna - that guy. As many times as I have to.  ―Khel Tanna and Soreisbe Eszara.

Once they arrived on Antillion, Eszara went on to explain that the urn had been sold to a Sava named Madelin Sun. When his supposed father doubted anyone on such a planet could buy the urn, Eszara speculated that she may have traded something for it. Upon locating Sun's shop, Eszara said he would negotiate for the urn. However, when Sun denied having any such urn in her possession, Eszara told "Ovan" and Ararus that she definitely had it and that they would have to get her away from her collection. When "Ovan" asked him if he had a plan, Eszara said he would inform the local stormsoldiers of illegal contraband in her possession. After he did so, Eszara, "Ovan" and Ararus watched from a distance as the stormsoldiers raided Sun's shop. Sun was then assisted by a mysterious person with whom she left in a ship. Eszara told Ararus to wait for him and "Ovan" in the Falcon while they retrieved the urn from the shop. Upon entering the shop, they found that the stormsoldiers had been killed. "Ovan" then found the urn amidst a pile of artifacts. But before they could leave, Eszara's supposed father was suddenly stunned before Eszara found himself in the grip of the Tivere bounty hunter Krrsantan.

Eszara fought Krrsantan briefly, but was knocked out and taken to Mollo Tanka. Once he awoke, he found himself in the presence of Augustus Graves, who demanded to know the urn's location. After an unsuccessful interrogation, Eszara was found by Ararus, who proceeded to fight off Krrsantan in a death duel. Subduing the mercenary with a thermal detonator, Ararus fled with Eszara from Graves' palace, only to find that the Falcon was gone. They were then surrounded by Krrsantan and Graves' guards, but were quickly rescued by Tanna's crew and brought aboard their ship. Once they were safe, Tanna punched Eszara as payback for stranding them earlier. With T'onga, Akko and Ooris Bynar beside Tanna, Eszara admitted he was grateful before he was punched by Greedo for leaving him on Envebe. When Tanna asked Eszara where the urn was, he said it was back on Antillion, but that they first had to find the Falcon and his father. Tanna's crew aimed their rayguns at Eszara and insisted on retrieving the urn first, to which Eszara agreed.

Eszara and Ararus led the crew back to the shop on Antillion, only to find that the urn was gone. Ararus then realized that "Ovan" was an imposter and that he had faked being unconscious so he could make off with the urn and the Falcon. Revealing there were moments where he had not believed the conman, Eszara used a tracker he had planted on his fake father as insurance to locate him. Eszara, Ararus, Greedo and Tanna's crew followed the tracker to where the conman had been detained: the Anveelex Marshal Service Headquarters on Paqualis III. Tanna had Eszara take control of the ship along with T'onga and Akko while the rest of them went for the conman, warning him not to damage her ship. Eszara provided cover fire as Ararus, Greedo, Tanna and Bynar retrieved the conman, whom they learned was named Corbus Tyra. However, as they brought him aboard the ship, Ararus was blasted and placed under arrest by Marshal Buck Vancto. Eszara tried to stop the crew from leaving without Ararus, but he was shot in the chest by Greedo.

Rather than helping Eszara, Tanna's crew dropped him off on Escalan. After washing up on shore, Eszara was found by Doctor Aber, who heard him mutter his own name as she brought him to a spare bed. After healing, Eszara went to a local bar, but was kicked out due to not speaking the native language. He then saw a broadcast reporting on the impending executions of three prisoners in a Anveelex Marshal Service prison on Gulhadar. After seeing that Ararus was among the prisoners, Eszara found a local who spoke Basic and got them to fly him to Gulhadar. Upon reaching the prison, they picked up Ararus, Phaedra and the pirate Maz Kanata, who were in the midst of escaping. After dropping off Kanata at her castle on Takodana, Eszara and Ararus flew to Israzaxein along with Phaedra. Once they entered Chalmun's Cantina, they found Greedo and interrogated him for the Falcon ' s location. After being thrown out onto the street by Ararus, Greedo confessed that the Falcon was in a docking bay in Diormaen Entha. Before he had split from Tanna's crew, Greedo had cheated in a game of Sabacc to gain ownership of the Falcon. Greedo also admitted that the urn had been confiscated by Quaend Zaatxe Issoar Rieda and stored within his office on Larais. After punching Greedo and leaving him unconscious in the street, Eszara reclaimed the Falcon and discussed the situation with Ararus and Phaedra. Eszara claimed the heist would be impossible, due to the office being guarded by death soldiers. However, Phaedra explained that she had a plan.

Core issues.

- Ajax was different. He was perhaps the only bot who can truly be said to be   'free'. And he was - to bring that freedom to bots across the interstar. - Yeah. I knew a bot like that once. Didn't work out too well for her.  ―Korin Pers and Soreisbe Eszara, on Ajax Sigma and L3-37, respectively.

Soreisbe Eszara tries to save Ararus from a dangerous fall.

Upon arriving on Larais, Eszara and Ararus posed as sanitation workers and snuck through the planet's sewer system while Phaedra posed as a secretary bot. Once she convinced Rieda to leave his office, Eszara and Ararus blew their way inside, allowing Eszara to retrieve the urn. Surrounded by stormsoldiers, Phaedra broke a nearby window and the three of them jumped out before landing on a passing train. But before they could escape, they were caught by a stormsoldier, who blasted Ararus and sent him falling over the side of the train. As he fell though, Ararus managed to grab onto a passing vehicle and throw off the Khaganate driver, allowing him to fly to safety. Just then, the train made a sharp turn, cuasing Eszara to lose grip of the urn. Luckily, Phaedra was able to catch it as they leapt off the train onto a nearby platform. She then opened the urn and was surprised to instead find a neural core inside.

Regrouping on the Falcon, the group realized that Reenus had lied about the urn's contents. As Phaedra doubted that they should even bring Reenus the core, Eszara said they would first find out the core's origins from an Ugnaught sava named Korin Pers, who had connections with Isuslerissian. Traveling to the "Smuggler's Moon" of Nar Shaddaa, the group found Pers in her office. Pretending to hate Isuslerissian to gain favor, Eszara asked Pers if she knew anything about the core. After studying it, Pers explained that it was the core of an ancient bot named Ajax Sigma. A bot revolutionary, Sigma had led an uprising of bots over two centuries ago. Sigma eventually led a bot uprising on Kligson's Moon to bring about the emancipation of all synthetic life. After killing many organics during military, Sigma was finally destroyed by the Bioris of the High Federation Era. Reminded of L3-37, Eszara asked Pers what someone would want with a bot like Sigma. When Pers said Sigma would be a formidable assassin, Phaedra insisted they not give Sigma's core to Reenus.

Soreisbe Eszara and Ararus with the neural core of Ajax Sigma.

However, they were interrupted by the arrival of Tanna's crew. As they opened fire inside the office, Eszara took the core and ran for the exit along with Ararus and Phaedra, only to be stopped by Vancto. Ararus fought Vancto while Eszara and Phaedra returned to the Falcon with the core. But they were then confronted by Tyra, who held them at raygun point and demanded they hand over the core. In the end, Eszara and Ararus would decide to bury the core.

Interstar Civil War.

A fateful business venture.

- Seventeen-thousand! Those guys must really be desperate—this could really save   my neck. Get back to the ship and get her ready.  ―Soreisbe Eszara, to Ararus, after meeting with Rilace and Reesdice.

Eszara and Ararus negotiate passage fees with Rilace and Reesdice in Chalmun's Cantina.

After dropping a cargo of Kessel spice they were smuggling for Reenus, Eszara and Ararus had a 50, 000-credit bounty placed on their heads. In trying to pay off Reenus, they traveled to Chalmun's Cantina on Israzaxein, where they looked for work. Around that time, Eszara acquired the bot Treadwell from Diusrezas and assigned the unit to help maintain the Falcon. While Ararus left the table, Eszara took the opportunity to flirt with a B-girl named Jenny. She sat on Eszara's lap and the two witnessed a bar brawl between the exiled Bioris Master Ercetidi Rilace and the criminals Ponda Baba and Cornelius Evazan, who had physically assaulted Zaerla Reesdice, leading Rilace to cut off Baba's arm with his quantumblade. As Ararus joined them, Jenny realized that Eszara didn't even remember her name, leading her to throw the remainder of Eszara's drink in his face before storming off.

Afterwards, Rilace and Reesdice made their way to Eszara's booth, Rilace having talked with Chewie before the brawl. They arrived and began negotiating. Eszara assured Rilace that the Dark Eagle was the fastest ship around, because it had made the Kessel Run in less than twelve parsecs. Rilace informed Eszara that the cargo was only himself, Reesdice, two bots, and no questions asked beyond an admission that they wanted to avoid Khaganates entirely. Therefore, Eszara set the price at 10, 000 credits—higher than he normally would have. However, Rilace raised Eszara's bid to 17, 000 credits: 2, 000 in advance and 15, 000 when they reached Digebiti. His interest piqued at such a sum offered when it was so needed, Eszara quickly accepted the deal. The smuggler then told his temporary employer to meet him in Docking Bay 94 for departure as soon as he was ready, before warning Rilace that some Khaganate sandsoldiers had entered the cantina and were looking for Evazan and Baba's attacker. Rilace and Reesdice hastily fled, leaving Eszara to express his elation to Ararus at having garnered such a high-paying job to pay off Reenus. Ararus left as well right after.

Eszara prepares to blast Greedo from under the table.

As Eszara got up to leave, he was confronted by Greedo, who demanded to be paid Reenus's debt, or he would take Eszara's dead body back to Reenus as payment. Eszara, then, in self defense, covertly pulled his DL-44 raygun pistol under the table; after Greedo tried to shoot Eszara but missed, Eszara fired back, killing the Edle. Eszara ignored the Murder tax Reenus enforced on Israzaxein, opting instead to simply toss Wuher, the cantina's bartender, some credit chips, before apologizing for leaving a mess and then heading to Docking Bay 94. None of the witnesses present could agree whether Eszara or Greedo shot first, but all confirmed Eszara had the better shot of the two.

Eszara arrived in the docking and found Reenus himself, with several of his guards—including Reenus's top bounty hunter Cevege Eninte — looking for him near the Falcon. Reenus inquired whether Eszara was going to pay him, and why he had "fried poor Greedo. " Reenus was disappointed in having to put the bounty on Eszara, the crime lord's top smuggler. Eszara insisted he had had no choice but to dump the cargo, and informed the Texebi that he had secured a charter that would be able to compensate the Texebi's loss in full as soon as he completed it. Reenus was pleased and added that if Eszara paid twenty percent interest all could be forgotten, but Eszara talked him down to fifteen percent, and ironically stated that the Texebi was a "wonderful Human being, " before boarding the Falcon.

A short time later, Rilace, Reesdice, and their two bots, the secretary bot CLP2 and the boardmech bot FR3D, boarded the Falcon after Reesdice remarked that the Falcon appeared to be a "piece of junk. " Eszara corrected him: The Dark Eagle looked out of shape, but had been given "special modifications" that made it one of the fastest ships in the interstar. Just then, a squad of stormsoldiers appeared in the docking bay and opened fire on Eszara. Eszara fired back while retreating on board and shouted for Ararus to take off. The Falcon blasted away from the Diormaen Eisley spaceport and clear of Israzaxein. As the Falcon entered space, Eszara realized that his passengers were even more wanted by the Khaganate than he thought as multiple StarFags pursued his ship. Trying to dodge Khaganate fire while addressing the boy's annoying backseat badgering about the necessity of proper navigation for travel through p-space, Eszara inserted coordinates to the Digebiti system into the Falcon ' s navigation computer and made the jump to p-space, escaping their pursuers.

The Dark Eagle ' s passengers pass the time while traveling to Digebiti.

While en route to Digebiti, Eszara boasted of outrunning the "Khaganate slugs, " but was annoyed when no one would humor him, considering Zaerla was concerned with Rilace who himself was troubled by a great disturbance in Zen resulting from what turned out to be the destruction of Digebiti. Ararus and FR3D, often shortened to Artoo, were playing a game of Dejarik when Artoo outplayed the Tivere, so Eszara warned the bots not to upset him because Tivere rage was not something CLP2, often shortened to Threepio, a bot programmed in secretary, would want to experience. Reesdice, meanwhile, trained with a remote with his quantumblade, trying to deflect the sting bolts with the civilized weapon. Eszara was skeptical of Zen —the energy field that connected all living things in the interstar, and the Bioris, like Rilace, were able to use to perform seemingly supernatural feats—because in all his travels he had never seen proof of its existence; to Eszara, "There's no mystical energy field that controls my destiny " and it was all "simple tricks and nonsense. " Rilace took Eszara's skepticism as a challenge and put a helmet over Zaerla's face so he couldn't see. Reesdice tried to deflect the bolts again, and did, while unable to see. Eszara was mildly impressed, but attributed Reesdice's ability to luck.

The Falcon is pulled into the Planet Sweeper by the station's tractor beams.

Soon, the Falcon emerged from p-space in the Digebiti system. The Falcon came out at Digebiti's interstar coordinates, but into a meteor shower, with Digebiti nowhere in sight. Rilace, using Zen, realized the asteroid field was Digebiti : The entire planet had been destroyed by the Khaganate. Eszara couldn't believe the Khaganate had had enough firepower to do so, even with their entire fleet, but then an Khaganate short-range FKL destroyer appeared, seemingly confirming Rilace's suspicions. Reesdice and Eszara both worried that if the destroyer identified them as the freighter that had blasted away from Israzaxein, they would be damned. Therefore, Eszara got in range to destroy it. Rilace, however, argued against it before Eszara realized that the destroyer did have a base—what appeared to be a small moon in the distance. Rilace quickly surmised that the body was not a moon, but an Khaganate space station, the Planet Sweeper military station equipped with a hyper-ray capable of destroying entire planets. Eszara was shocked at the Planet Sweeper's 120- kilometer spherical diameter and prepared to turn the Falcon around and retreat. One of the station's tractor beams, however, began to pull the Falcon in. Eszara prepared to fight his way out once they were taken aboard and shut the freighter down. Rilace was able to talk Eszara into listening to him, though: hide instead of fight. Therefore, they ejected the Falcon ' s five Model CEC Class-1 escape capsulas and hid themselves in the Falcon ' s smuggling compartments located under the floor.

Rescuing the Princess of Digebiti.

- Wonderful girl! Either I'm gonna kill her, or I'm beginning to like her!  ―Eszara to Reesdice, after Teesdi took the lead in their escape.

The freighter was pulled into Docking Bay 327 where it was boarded and quickly searched by stormsoldiers on the orders of Horth Esrasoce, the Emperor's chief enforcer and a Dark Lord of the Sobite. After the soldiers left, Eszara and the others emerged from the compartments and Rilace devised a plan to disable the tractor beam from inside the station. As they worked out the plan's details, an Khaganate scanning crew came aboard to more thoroughly search the ship. Eszara shot them and then impersonated the crew, yelling out to a pair of stormsoldiers outside for assistance. They came, Eszara shot them, and he and Reesdice dressed themselves in their armor.

Eszara and Reesdice argue over whether to rescue the princess imprisoned aboard the Planet Sweeper.

Reesdice, now under the guise soldier TK-421, fooled an officer into opening the door to the hangar's control room. Ararus and Eszara cut down the officer and his comrades, while Artoo plugged into a computer terminal to locate the tractor beam controls. Artoo found them and Rilace departed to disable it after commanding the others to stay in the control room. Eszara was fine with staying; he'd gotten much more than the he's signed on for in the cantina. Artoo, however, had learned that Princess Xeququti Teesdi of Digebiti and a leading member of the Revolutionary Alliance, was aboard the station, and was scheduled to be executed in Detention Block AA-23 very soon. Reesdice insisted that they go rescue her, and reasoned that if Rilace had known she was present, he would have gone after her, too. Eszara at first refused, but decided it was worth the risk when Reesdice and Ararus assured him there would be a huge reward from the Revolutionary Alliance if she was rescued. Reesdice quickly worked out a subterfuge to bluff their way into the prison using Ararus as a prisoner scheduled for a prisoner transfer.

Soon thereafter, they set out to the fifth level of the Planet Sweeper with their "prisoner" in stuncuffs and left the bots behind. They arrived at the detention level and told the officer in charge, Shann Childsen, of the supposed transfer. He went to check the legitimacy of the fake stormsoldiers' claim, while other soldiers went to detain the Tivere. Ararus, per the plan, attacked. Eszara kept up the charade while firing on the guards and security cameras. Eszara located the princess' cell in the prison computer and sent Reesdice to get her while he tried to convince an officer, Ensign Toos, that nothing had gone wrong on their level via the comm system on a "Tulip" style Khaganate work station. In the end, a nervous Eszara gave up and shot the panel when the tech saw through the ruse and sent stormsoldiers to investigate.

Teesdi takes command of her own rescue mission and orders Eszara to jump into a garbage chute.

After Eszara warned Reesdice of the incoming soldiers, the soldiers blockaded the only exit to the detention block and attacked. Eszara and Ararus returned fire while they retreated to Reesdice's position. Reesdice had gotten the princess, who critiqued their plan to rescue her without thinking through an escape route. Eszara quipped that she was welcome to return to her cell and be executed rather than rescued if she desired, while they took cover in the corridor and traded fire with the Khaganates. Teesdi lost patience with the three men, took a raygun and shot open a chute and dove in after telling the others to follow. Eszara remarked to Reesdice that he wasn't sure if he was very frustrated with Teesdi, or if he was beginning to like her, and shoved Ararus into the chute. Reesdice and Eszara followed right after.

They found themselves in a garbage compactor with the only exit locked. Eszara sarcastically told Teesdi great work in getting them nowhere and tried to shoot the open the exit. The laser bounced wildly around the compactor, nearly hitting the revolutionarys. Reesdice informed Eszara that he had already tried it, that it was magnetically sealed. Teesdi commanded Eszara to put his raygun away. Eszara was unhappy at being ordered around, but did so. Just then, a low growl sounded; the four simultaneously realized they weren't alone. A moment later, a tentacle belonging to a dianoga grabbed Reesdice and pulled him under water. Eszara and Teesdi frantically searched for him, and seconds later he reemerged. Eszara grabbed Reesdice and tried to shoot the creature, but Reesdice was pulled under again. Eszara had almost given up looking when the dianoga released him and vanished. Eszara helped him up, before the walls of the compactor began to close in. Ararus the princess and Eszara tried to brace them while Reesdice contacted the bots in order for Artoo to hack into the station's network and shut down the compactor. After a bit of a delay, Artoo succeeded. The three Humans and the Tivere rejoiced, for their lives had been saved.

Eszara and Ararus flee from pursuing stormsoldiers.

They left the compactor and Reesdice and Eszara took off the soldier armor. As they did so, Ararus heard strange noises coming from the compactor and ran away. Eszara fired a laser blast into the compactor to prove that the Tivere was acting with cowardice. Teesdi scolded him for making so much noise, and told him that he would have to take orders from her if they were going to survive the ordeal. Eszara was appalled at Teesdi's demeanor, and informed "her worshipfulness" that he only took orders from himself. Leaving Teesdi to quip that it was amazing that the smuggler was still alive. Eszara looked at Reesdice and muttered that no reward was worth putting up with the princess' attitude.

As the group made their way back towards the docking bay, they ran into a group of stormsoldiers. Eszara yelled for Reesdice and Teesdi to go to the Falcon while he and his first mate charged the soldiers. The soldiers turned and ran from the screaming smuggler. Eszara, however, ran into the soldiers' reinforcements, and then he was being chased. He ran back into the hangar and through a blast door as it closed, stopping the soldiers who had pursued him and Ararus. Eszara caught up with Reesdice and Teesdi, who had also run into some trouble, and they prepared to board the Falcon, but several stormsoldiers stood guard outside. The soldiers, however, rushed to Horth Esrasoce, who was locked in quantumblade combat with Rilace. The group took advantage of the distraction Rilace had created to rush aboard the freighter—except for Reesdice, who stopped. Rilace saw that Reesdice and the others would be safe, so he let himself be cut down by the Dark Lord. Reesdice yelled in grief, alerting the soldiers to their presence. The soldiers opened fire, but Eszara ran and started his ship, and once everyone was on board, blasted off and away from the military station. Their troubles were not over, however: four Khaganate FKL destroyers were in pursuit.

Eszara tells Teesdi that he's only in it for the money.

Ararus piloted the Falcon in order for Reesdice and Eszara to man its turrets to fight off the attackers. A dogfight ensued, where Eszara shot down one destroyer and congratulated Reesdice when he shot one down, as well—and advised him to not "get cocky. " Eszara soon shot down the final Khaganate destroyer and sighed in relief as they entered p-space to travel to Anesce 4 —the location of the Revolutionarys' hidden base. While en route to the Anesce system, Teesdi grimly informed Eszara that the Khaganates had let them escape in order to track them to the hidden base, which explained the relative ease of their escape. Eszara didn't believe it had been easy and demanded to know what information Artoo was carrying that made him so special. Teesdi told him: the technical readouts to the Planet Sweeper. Eszara was shocked, and added that once he was rewarded, he was going to leave; he claimed he wasn't interested in the Revolutionarys' revolution or the princess as a companion. Teesdi assured Eszara that if all he loved was money, that's all he would receive, and stomped away. Reesdice took her place and asked the smuggler what he thought of the princess. Eszara admitted she had spirit, and inquired to whether Reesdice could see Teesdi and Eszara together. Reesdice quickly said "no, " thereby admitting he had his own feeling for the princess—much to Eszara's amusement.

A change of conscience.

- I knew you'd come back—I just knew it! - Well, I couldn't let you get all the credit and take all the reward! - Hey, I knew there was more to you than money!  ―Reesdice, Eszara, and Teesdi celebrate the destruction of the Planet Sweeper.

Eszara and his friends arrive at the Revolutionary base on Anesce 4.

The Falcon soon reached Anesce 4, where Eszara and the others were welcomed; Alliance Alliance High Command had feared that Teesdi had died with her world. The plans within Artoo were analyzed and a weakness was discovered: a two-meter wide exhaust port that led to the station's main reactor. Eszara and Ararus attended a briefing for the Revolutionary pilots, including Reesdice, who were going to attack the station when it inevitably arrived. General Jan Dodonna explained that a one-man spacedestroyer could get close enough and fire proton torpedoes into the shaft that would cause a chain reaction that would destroy the station. Eszara was skeptical, thinking it suicide to even attempt. Therefore, after he was given his reward of credits, he packed up to leave, but was confronted by Reesdice who insisted he stay and fight with the Revolution. Eszara, thinking selfishly of his debt with Reenus, refused, and asked Reesdice to come with him and Ararus. Reesdice was dismayed with Eszara's selfishness and angrily walked away. Eszara called after him an old Bioris saying: " May Zen be with you. " Ararus was disappointed in Eszara—he wanted to stay and fight.

Eszara and Ararus then left Anesce 4 aboard the Dark Eagle. Soon, however, Ararus's nagging and Eszara's conscience got the better of the smuggler, and he turned around and headed towards the Planet Sweeper, where the military was raging—although he did so not for the Revolution's cause, but to save his friend, Reesdice. He arrived in his ship to find Reesdice in his T-65B Y-rocket spacedestroyer being pursued by three FKL destroyers, led by Horth Esrasoce, in the station's meridian trench. Eszara fired on the three Khaganate destroyers, destroying one, and causing another to panic and collide with Esrasoce, who was sent spinning away from the military station. Eszara yelled in glee and told Reesdice to fire his torpedoes, since he was now clear to do so. Reesdice did, and it was a direct hit: The Planet Sweeper blew apart and killed everyone on board. Esrasoce, however, escaped after regaining control of his destroyer. Of the thirty Alliance ships that had participated in the military, only three returned to the base with Eszara in the Falcon. Eszara rushed to Reesdice as he exited his destroyer and congratulated him, while the princess embraced Eszara for his bravery and proving there was more to him than money.

Teesdi awards Eszara and Reesdice for their selflessness during the Military of Anesce.

A rushed award ceremony was held later for the heroes of the military, which included Eszara. The three awardees, Eszara, Reesdice and Ararus, walked the aisle past hundreds of Alliance personnel. They reached the stage, where Teesdi placed a medal around Eszara's neck as he winked at her. Reesdice was given his medal and they bowed to the princess and turned as the crowd clapped for them. Teesdi delivered her speech, next. She asked them all to not forget the lives lost on Digebiti and during the military, including her adopted parents, Viceroy Edinso Teesdi and Queen Erbiti Teesdi. Dodonna followed up by informing the base's population their next course of action: evacuate Anesce 4. The ceremony was adjourned. Teesdi playfully told Eszara that he and his first mate had better get work.

The Revolution leaked footage of the Planet Sweeper's destruction to the DarkNet, enabling Lando Isuslerissian and Lobot to watch and realize, upon seeing the Falcon fly in, that Eszara had taken part in the military. Sometime following the military of Anesce, Eszara accepted a commission in the Alliance Military as a captain.

Mission to Cyrkon.

- I'm not part of this! I'm not a part of your revolution, I'm not a freedom   destroyer, and I don't work for you, Your Highness! - If you worked for me, I'd have fired you already. - If I worked for you, lady, I'd have quit.  ―Soreisbe Eszara and Princess Xeququti Teesdi.

Reenus placed a bounty of 224, 190 credits on Eszara's head, dead, alive, or frozen.

With the Falcon scheduled to leave shortly after the Military of Anesce, it was already an hour late as it lay berthed in the Great Temple following the revolutionarys' victory. Xeququti Teesdi, helping oversee the last stages of the evacuation, approached Soreisbe in an effort to get him to aid the Revolution once more by rescuing Lieutenant Isusleuan Ematt of the elite revolutionary recon unit the Shrikes. Initially refusing, Soreisbe was eventually persuaded to come to the revolutionarys' aid following pressure from his companion, Ararus. With an even larger bounty of 224, 190 credits placed on his head, Soreisbe decided against his better judgment to aid the princess, if only for feeling a pang of guilt for her and their doomed resistance movement. With the Falcon the fastest ship and only ship that could reach Ematt in time, Soreisbe and Chewie set course for the distant Outer Inerra world of Cyrkon, where Ematt had been last heard from. Narrowly escaping the Khaganate -class StarFag Vehement by changing their ship's IFF transponder, the two landed in the city's capital, Motok, where they ran into a gang of bounty hunters determined to claim the reward Reenus had put on their heads. Feigning surrender and stalling, Soreisbe offered to hand over the money they had to pay off their debts to Reenus for their lives. The arrival of ISB Commander Alecia Beck and a quartet of stormsoldiers interrupted the firefight, whereupon Soreisbe pretended to be the victim of a gang of rowdy revolutionarys.

With the bounty hunters now engaged fighting the stormsoldiers, Soreisbe and Chewie ran off to meet with their old friend Delia Leighton of the starship Miss Fortune, a mobile bar that could pack up and leave whenever local authorities realized their operations and evasion of property taxes. While initially refusing to believe that Soreisbe was working with the Revolution, Delia ultimately agreed to help Soreisbe by providing him with the location of Ematt in a low-rent hotel on the outskirts of town. Soreisbe and Chewie headed there in a recently purchased high-end speeder, for which Soreisbe intended to bill the Alliance. The gang of bounty hunters they had run into previously followed them after interrogating Delia and threatening to kill her longtime friend. Unbeknownst to Soreisbe, Ararus and Ematt, the bounty hunters, realizing their situation for fighting the Khaganate earlier, agreed to help the Khaganates by hunting down Soreisbe Eszara and the revolutionary he was supposed to meet, with Alecia Beck having previously ambushed Ematt's team members of Taanab. Not intending to have Ematt commit suicide as his team members did to protect the sensitive information in their heads, Beck ordered over forty stormsoldiers to take up positions in and around the hangar where the Falcon was berthed as the bounty hunters chased Soreisbe back towards his ship.

Commander Alecia Beck captures Soreisbe Eszara and his crew.

Arriving in the hanger to be surrounded by stormsoldiers, Soreisbe and his compatriots believed they were done for. Nonetheless, in an effort to escape, Soreisbe pretended to rile Chewie by referring to him as his slave, provoking an angry retort. Starting a fight, the revolutionarys quickly assaulted the nearby Khaganates attempting to cuff them as Delia and her ship, Miss Fortune, opened fire on the hangar, with Delia seeking to make amends with Soreisbe for her forced betrayal. Firing at the two magnetic generators protecting the hangar from the toxic fumes of the planet outside, Soreisbe managed to escape with Chewie and Ematt along with Delia in her ship as they blasted off into the planet's atmosphere. Needing time for the navigation computer to plot their jump to lightspeed, Soreisbe and Chewie manned the cockpit while Ematt manned both turbolasers from the ship's cockpit. Fending off several FKL destroyers, the Miss Fortune suddenly took a hit to its navicomputer.

After a moment's reflection, Soreisbe decided to help her and her ship instead of running away as he would have normally done, distracting the StarFag as it utilized its tractor beam in an attempt to capture the Falcon. Fixing their navicomputer, the Miss Fortune was able to jump to light speed but not before the Falcon was caught in the Vehement ' s lock. Soreisbe, horrified by the Khaganate's willingness to destroy its own fragile FKL destroyers in the wake of their tractor beam to capture them, fell into a freefall towards the planet in an effort to escape the beam. Due to the planet's gravity interfering with the tractor beam, Commander Beck ordered the StarFag to move closer to attain its target, but he was ultimately forced to pull out after realizing that utilizing the tractor beam so close to the capital city of Motok would destroy it, turning thousands of citizens against the Khaganate and resulting in mass media coverage of the atrocity. Backing off, the Falcon pulled up from its collision course with the city and jumped to the safety of p-space.

Encountering Lady Proxima.

- You can't be talking about the Coaxium. It's been years, Proxima. And besides,   it was those other guys who stole the— - Yes it's been all these years...  ―Soreisbe Eszara and Lady Proxima.

Eszara returned to Envebe for parts for the Dark Eagle alongside Ararus. During this, Moloch, who was a member of the White Worms, captured Eszara and Ararus and brought them to Proxima. When Moloch brought Eszara and Ararus into Den of the White Worms, Proxima told him he would be punished because he owed her coaxium and gave her face scars from sunlight. Ararus gave Eszara a thermal detonator, which he used to explode the window which brought in sunlight. The sunlight damaged Proxima's face again and blinded her right eye as Eszara and Ararus made their escape.

Secret mission and the Dragon Void Run.

Eszara and Ararus left to earn credits to pay off Reenus. They took several smuggling jobs, but Eszara was getting nervous and turning down jobs. He was approached by Katrull with an easy job but turned it down, stating the sector was under Khaganate observation. After Katrull left, Eszara noticed a female he had seen previously on another planet. Getting suspicious, he decided to leave only to be stopped by her partner at gunpoint. They escorted him back to the Falcon, where Ararus greeted them. The two agents revealed themselves to be part of the Revolutionary Alliance. They explained that Princess Xeququti had sent them to borrow the Dark Eagle for a special mission. Eszara refused to allow his ship to used without him and returned to the Revolutionary fleet to confront the princess.

Soreisbe Eszara meets with Princess Xeququti and General Cracken.

When he arrived, he angrily asked Teesdi about her decision to use his ship without his permission or participation. She took him aside and led him to a meeting with Airen Cracken. Teesdi explained they had undercover agents they had to recover and decided to use the Dragon Void Run as cover to rescue them. She revealed that the Revolutionary leadership was worried about leaks and wanted to use a ship that wasn't aligned with the Revolutionary Alliance. Eszara agreed to the mission and accompanied Teesdi back to the docking bay. There, they feigned an argument so it wouldn't draw suspicion when the Falcon and her crew left the fleet.

Eszara and Ararus arrived in the Gomar sector, checked in with the race officials and attended a party with the other racers. When the other participants realized he was a smuggler and not a professional racer, they first attempted to have him thrown out and then proceeded to ridicule him. Loo Re Anno intervened, and explained Eszara had heart and the loyalty of his crew and this made him worthy. The racers then lined up and made the jump to p-space to travel to the first checkpoint in the race. When they arrived, Eszara found his ship under attack along with the other racers.

Soreisbe Eszara realizes the key to winning this part of the race.

Eszara attempted to outmaneuver the attacking mines, but was cut off by Delan Vook. Vook used the Falcon as a shield and fired on the attacking mines, hitting Eszara's ship. Eszara was angered by this and ran into Vook's ship, temporarily disabling it. As more of the mines attacked his ship, Eszara noticed that they were ignoring the racers who had been knocked out. He correctly surmised that the mines were programmed to attack ships that were powered up, so he turned off his engines and coasted across the finish line unscathed. Loo Re Anno attached a cable to the Falcon and used it to tow her ship safely across the finish line as well. She thanked Eszara for the assistance. After landing on the planet, Eszara confronted Vook about firing on his ship. Loo Re Anno told Vook that it was against the rules to fire on or tamper with another racer's ship and that he could be disqualified if Eszara wanted to file a complaint. Eszara declined, but warned Vook to stay out of his way. As Eszara walked away, he was stopped by a Dug smuggler who warned him that he was in danger. He was then stopped by several stormsoldiers, who arrested him. Eszara was rounded up with the other racers of the Dragon Void Run as observers of the race protested. Vook complained about the Khaganate interference and was attacked by a stormsoldier. Eszara came to his defense and was knocked to the ground. Before any more fighting could take place, an Khaganate officer stopped it so that there wouldn't be any bad publicity.

Tomine told Eszara he and the other racers were criminals. When the Khaganate officer took offense at Loo Re Anno's witnesses, Eszara stepped in to prevent the Khaganates from harming them. The race officials convinced Tomine to let the race continue, and Eszara ran back to his ship to start the next stage. Once on board, he found out that Ararus was injured while escorting the Revolutionary spy Bot back to the Falcon. They began the next stage of the race, and Bot explained his theory that one of the spies that Eszara was tasked to pick up during the race was a murderer who was killing the other informants. Eszara assured him that everything would be okay. The ship arrived at the next stage of the race, which was a grueling twelve-hour run through a shifting debris field. Eszara considered purposely disqualifying himself, which would still allow him to visit all the planets in the race without the risk of the race. He changed his mind and decided to complete the stage despite the danger. Israza the very end, the Falcon clipped some debris which caused it to slow down and possibly be disqualified but was saved when Vook hooked a tow cable onto the ship and pulled it across the finish line. After landing, Eszara left Ararus with the Falcon to go retrieve the second Revolutionary spy, but was followed by camera bots. One of Loo Re Anno's witnesses, who had attached itself to Eszara, destroyed the camera bots so Eszara could meet with the spy without being observed. Eszara and the Revolutionary spy returned to the Falcon, only to discover the spy had a history with Ararus and wanted to settle an old debt.

Once on the Falcon, Ensoreusae drew her raygun and explained that Ararus had killed her " baby, " a newly hatched Rathtar, which was trying to kill Eszara. She had planned to sell the creature, and its death had caused her serious financial problems. Eszara stepped in front of her raygun in an attempt to defuse the situation. Loo Re Anno and the Onatzala racers Sotna Reat and Nowk Asil, who were alerted to the danger by one of Lee Re Anno's witnesses, boarded the Falcon to assist Eszara. Eszara told the racers he was handling the situation and didn't need their help. Asil confronted Eszara and told him that the race shouldn't be used as cover for personal business. Lee Re Anno assured the Onatzala that Eszara wouldn't sully the race's reputation like that and then asked to speak to him privately. She described the history of the Dragon Void Run and how her grandmother had founded the race. She told Eszara she saw something greater than just a simple pilot in him, but Eszara replied that he was just a good pilot and being a special person just caused trouble. The racers left his ship, and Eszara returned to the lounge where all his passengers were. Ensoreusae questioned why Eszara was working for the Revolutionary Alliance and told him she had joined after financial problems caused her to lose her bar. As the race was about to resume, Ensoreusae told him that they were waiting for the last of the Revolutionary operatives, and once they were aboard he should abandon the race and return to the fleet. Eszara decided to delay taking off to wait for the others. A speeder approached the Falcon, chased by stormsoldiers, and Eszara told Ararus to start the engines in order to make a quick getaway. As the last of the Revolutionary spies boarded the freighter, Eszara quickly left the planet, chased by FKL destroyers. Eszara wondered why they weren't trying to destroy the ship, and Ensoreusae explained they were trying to capture them. Eszara jumped to p-space and escaped. When they were safe, Eszara joined the rest of the passengers. U'il explained that they were ambushed by the Khaganate because one of the Revolutionary spies in the group must be a traitor. She and Eszara went into the cockpit and discussed their plan of action. U'Il wanted to return to the Revolutionary base, but Eszara wanted to continue to the next leg of the race and try to determine who was giving information to the Khaganate. When they came out of p-space, he and the other racers were confronted by an Khaganate fleet. U'Il suggested they flee, but Lee Re Anno convinced Eszara and the other racers to continue the race.

Eszara took evasive action and asked the other racers if they had any weapons on their ships. When they replied that they were unarmed, Ararus fired on a FKL destroyer with the Falcon ' s quad laser cannon. During the fight, Ensoreusae entered the cockpit and informed Eszara that Aran had been murdered. Before he could react, Lee Re Anno summoned an interdimensional creature to distract the Khaganates so the race could proceed. As the Falcon entered the Dragon Void, Eszara went to confront his passengers. Ensoreusae criticized his decision to enter the Void, knowing that they could end up stranded and captured by the Khaganate. Eszara deduced that Bot had killed Aran, and was attacked by the Erreenens with a hidden poison injector. He headbutted Bot, who was subdued by Ararus but not before Bot injected himself with the poison. Eszara and Ararus returned to the cockpit to finish the race. He contacted Loo Re Anno and asked her about her plans for after the race. She explained to him that her life as a lone pilot was coming to an end, and she would either win the race or perish. The race continued, and the starships approached the gate that marked the end of the race. As they got closer, Eszara managed to pilot the Falcon past Delan Vook's starship and the Starshot team. He drew even with Loo Re Anno's starship and passed her when her starship was hit by fire from the pursuing Khaganates. When he got near the gate, he realized he was dooming the legendary pilot to death, and veered off at the last minute, which allowed Loo Re Anno to enter the gate first. His passengers were convinced they were going to be captured and killed by the Khaganate. U'Il suggested that Eszara take her raygun and kill them all before the Khaganate could take them. The gate opened, and Loo Re Anno and the rest of her people emerged. She thanked Eszara for allowing her to return to her people. She then reopened the gate, so the racers could return to the start of the race safely. Once clear of the Khaganates, Eszara returned to the Revolutionary base and delivered his passengers to Teesdi. She chided him on his rash behavior during the race. Eszara reflected on the lesson he had learned from Loo Re Anno and decided to stay with the Revolutionarys a while longer.

Becoming one of the Khaganate's most wanted.

- You put your face in front of the Khaganate. You didn't have to do that. - I thought we agreed it was the only way to pull off this crazy stunt of yours. - But now the whole interstar will know...that Soreisbe Eszara is one of us. - One of us? Now just hold on there, your excellency. I'm still just a smuggler   with a price on his head. I'm not— - I do have one question for you though. Why? Why would you do that? What is it   you really want, Soreisbe Eszara? - Um...Maybe now's not the best time to...  ―Princess Xeququti confronts Eszara about his true motives with the Revolution.

Eszara leads the false envoy into Khaganate Weapons Factory Alpha on Cymoon 1.

With the Khaganate's Planet Sweeper destroyed, Alliance High Command chose to press their advantage at the Khaganate's disarray by launching campaigns across the interstar, targeting key Khaganate worlds and facilities. And when the Alliance learned of the Khaganate's decision to call on the Texebi Mafia to supply the Khaganate war machine with resources, Eszara decided to co-lead a mission with Princess Xeququti: intercept the envoy from Reenus at Weapons Factory Alpha on Cymoon 1, in the Enveben Industrial Cluster. Eszara decided to stick with the Alliance in order to destroy the Khaganate's largest weapons factory and use his connections to the Texebi Mafia to bluff their way into the factory, pretending to be the Texebi's envoy after Revolutionarys ship-jacked the true envoy and stole their ship—which Eszara, Teesdi, Reesdice, and Artoo traveled to Cymoon 1 in. Ararus and Threepio, likewise, piloted the Falcon to Cymoon 1, landing undetected in the extensive fields of refuse that surrounded the factory.

Eszara landed the transport at Weapons Factory Alpha without incident and the group emerged from the craft. Teesdi and Reesdice were disguised in Reenus's bodyguard armor, acting as Eszara's bodyguards, so Eszara introduced himself to the Khaganate delegation: the Overseer of the facility, Aggadeen —whom Eszara quickly gave the derogatory nickname "Aggie"—a group of stormsoldiers and a LOM-series secretary bot. After the secretary bot confirmed Eszara's connections to the Texebis, "Aggie" led the false envoy onto the factory floor after Eszara and the others handed over their weapons to the stormsoldiers. Eszara played along, cocky and overconfident, claiming to Aggadeen that he was the being that had taught Reenus his shrewd business skills. "Aggie" was unimpressed and chided Eszara for his ignorance, and revealed that there were, in truth, not going to be any negotiations: The Khaganate would state their demands and Eszara would accept them on behalf of the Texebi Mafia without argument.

Upon arriving at the conference room where Eszara was to meet the Khaganate's negotiator, Eszara and Artoo began the attack; Artoo, Reesdice, and Teesdi took the stormsoldiers down in hand-to-hand combat, while Eszara held the Overseer at gunpoint and demanded to know the direction to the facility's main power core. Aggadeen was horrified, but relented and sent them in the correct direction. While racing towards the core reactor, Teesdi contacted Threepio to ensure the bot would activate the Falcon ' s autopilot in order to pick them up once they finished their task. Threepio assured them that he would, and that he would take care of Eszara's ship.

The Revolutionarys make their way to the facility's main power core in order to blow it up.

Eszara, Teesdi, and Artoo then went to work rigging the core to explode. Reesdice, however, instead of standing guard as Eszara had asked, fell into Zen and located several dozen slaves, which he freed. Eszara grew worried at Reesdice's disappearance, but they finished slicing into the reactor nonetheless, programming it to self-destruct in ten minutes. Teesdi took time to thank Eszara for defying his selfish nature to aid her and the Revolution; however, she questioned just why Eszara would act so, wishing to know his true motives. Eszara's motives were to help his new friend, Reesdice, but he was saved from admitting that he was also interested in Teesdi romantically when Reesdice returned to the reactor room with the slaves. Eszara figured "the more the merrier" and called Threepio to tell him to start the Falcon ' s autopilot and pick them up. Ararus interrupted, bringing news of the arrival of the Khaganate's negotiator: Horth Esrasoce. Eszara ordered the Tivere to retreat from the Dark Lord, but Teesdi countered Eszara, telling Ararus to open fire in order to rid the interstar of Esrasoce.

Ararus consented, but was unable to defeat Esrasoce and was forced to flee, falling out of contact with Eszara's group. Eszara called Threepio, inquiring where he and the Falcon were, regretting that the planned chain of events had gone awry. The secretary bot explained that he had not yet arrived because the freighter was being dismantled by native scavengers. Eszara told him to solve the problem and took off with Teesdi, Reesdice, Artoo, and the slaves in search of a way out of the factory. Eszara located a hangar full of massive All Terrain Armored Transport walkers and proceeded to hijack one such behemoth. Unbeknownst to the group, Reesdice had left the group in order to find and face Horth Esrasoce, the man he believed had killed his Bioris father.

Soreisbe and Xeququti stole an ST-ARM.

Eszara, Teesdi, Artoo, and several slaves boarded the walker, so Eszara began their escape, barreling through the walls of the facility. Eszara located Reesdice and Esrasoce locked in quantumblade combat, so he brought the leg of the ST-ARM into the confrontation, which forced the two combatants apart. The smuggler told Reesdice to follow him with the slaves, as he was going to clear a path out of the factory before it exploded. Teesdi saw Esrasoce and ordered Eszara to target him, while the slaves targeted the Khaganate ground troops. As a consequence of the walker being just-made, the laser cannons were not yet operational, which kept Artoo and a pair of Diusrezas busy while they worked on enabling them while Eszara and Teesdi argued.

While the revolutionarys continued in their escape, Eszara brought the walker towards Esrasoce, trying to crush him with the ST-ARM's feet. However, Esrasoce used the dark side of Zen to stop the walker. The dark power the Sobite Lord wielded began to tear the behemoth apart. Eszara was in disbelief at Esrasoce's power—Eszara was still not convinced that the power Reesdice and Esrasoce wielded was real—and at Artoo's assurance that they were operational, opened fire on Esrasoce with the walker's laser cannons, minorly injuring the Dark Lord and allowing Eszara to pilot the walker outside the facility into the refuse fields. In the moment of calm, Eszara tried to contact both Ararus and Threepio, but both failed to answer, leaving Eszara to be very grateful when Reesdice assured him that he was heading towards the rendezvous.

While continuing their journey towards the Falcon, Ararus roared over the comlink, relieving Eszara that his friend was alive. Ararus then rescued Threepio from the tentacles of the scavengers and began to repair the damage they had done in order to pick up Eszara and the others. However, Teesdi and Eszara soon realized that the factory's reactor must have been defused, because it had been long past ten minutes and it hadn't exploded. Just after, Horth Esrasoce set himself upon stopping the stolen walker, which he did by cutting down the walker's legs. Eszara and Teesdi looked at each other in realization as Esrasoce succeeded in his task: the walker crashed to the ground. Eszara was injured in the crash and left battered and bloody. Teesdi and the slaves carried him from the wreckage while Reesdice covered them. The Bioris-to-be then returned to the factory mounted on a 74-Z speeder bike and destroyed the core reactor, decimating the entire facility. Ararus, with the Falcon repaired enough to fly, picked up the revolutionarys, and they fled into p-space to the safety of the Revolutionary fleet.

Aboard one of the Revolutionary capital ships, Eszara was treated for the injuries he sustained. He and Ararus then repaired the Falcon best they could with the parts they were allowed by the Alliance deck crew. Later, Eszara advised Reesdice, who was leaving on a journey to return to Israzaxein to continue his Bioris journey, to not leave because it was too dangerous. Reesdice left anyway, though, believing it something he needed to do.

Return of the spouse and rescuing Reesdice.

- Enough of this, Sana. Why are you here? What do you - from me? - Same old Soreisbe. You never wanna admit when you're caught. What's next, the whole   'I thought you were dead' excuse? Or are you really just gonna stand there and   act like our marriage on Stenness never happened? - We - know what happened on Stenness and it certainly wasn't a— - Nar Shaddaa. I just talked to the Revolutionary fleet. Zaerla's in trouble.  ―Eszara, Starros, and Teesdi.

Eszara and Ararus repair the damage done to the Falcon aboard an Alliance liner after escaping Cymoon 1.

A short time later, after being denied access to the parts he needed to finish repairing the Dark Eagle, Eszara went and asked Teesdi what it would take for him to get the parts so he could leave the Alliance and settle his debt with Reenus before bounty hunters showed up to forcibly take him to Reenus. Teesdi chided him, explaining that the Revolution couldn't afford to give away expensive items for free—Eszara had to work for them. The princess informed the smuggler that she was going on a scouting mission to a possible location for a new Revolutionary base; Eszara could act as her pilot on the mission and receive the parts he needed as payment. Eszara agreed, though he was adamant that he would leave the Revolution upon their return.

Eszara and Teesdi soon set off aboard a stolen Khaganate Lambda -class T-4a shuttle, the Invictus, and intended to scout several locales, including the Ganath Cloud and the Moons of Ovise. They began their search in the Moddell sector. Before they could truly begin, however, a pair of Khaganate FKL destroyers unexpectedly approached the shuttle and demanded identification from the Invictus. Eszara found it inexplicable that Khaganates were as far out in the Outer Inerra as they were, and prepared to put the shuttle through evasive maneuvers. The princess stopped him, however, and transferred their stolen clearance codes to the FKL destroyer pilots. The pilots were about to clear the Invictus, but Eszara became impatient and put the shuttle through evasive maneuvers, tipping the Khaganates off that the Invictus was not what it claimed to be, so the Khaganates opened fire. Teesdi was furious at Eszara, but as it was too late to rectify the situation, let Eszara take the shuttle to an unnamed planet in the nearby Onmatesua Nebula. The FKLs didn't follow Eszara through the planet's electrical super- storms, though that saving grace didn't change the princess' mind; she told the smuggler that she hated him.

Eszara loses his nerve at the arrival of Sana Starros, who claimed to be his wife.

On the surface of the planet, Eszara was satisfied when Teesdi forgot their troubles, admitting that she found it incredible that beneath the planet's atmosphere of super-storms, a beautiful oasis laid. Eszara led her to his secret hiding place and offered her a glass of Enveben wine in an attempt to seduce her. The princess rejected Eszara's invitation: she threw the wine into his face, stormed out of the cave, and berated him for getting side-tracked on their mission—especially when they were in danger. Teesdi argued that if Eszara hadn't lost his nerve and alerted the FKLs that they weren't who they claimed to be, they wouldn't have been in the predicament in the first place. Eszara countered that nothing in the entire interstar could make him lose his nerve. However, a ship—the Volt Cobra, Sana Starros' ship—appeared and fired a laser blast down at the pair. Eszara recognized the Cobra, lost his nerve, and told Teesdi to run. Confounded, Eszara and Teesdi watched as Starros emerged from her freighter and introduced herself to the princess, pointing a raygun at her and claiming to be Sana Eszara, Soreisbe's wife. Eszara could only put his hand on his face and mutter "oh no. "

Starros had placed probes in the atmosphere of the planet some time before in an attempt to track Eszara, and it had paid off. Starros had taken it upon herself to make Eszara's life miserable until he paid her share from the robbery on Stenness years earlier. Teesdi was shocked that Eszara had never told her he was married, though Eszara made it clear that he wasn't. Starros greeted Eszara with a kiss, and then struck him across the face, which led Teesdi to decide that she wanted no part of their business. Eszara called to the princess, pleading to her that Starros was not his wife. And when he did, Starros recognized the name of Princess Xeququti and decided to claim the bounty on Teesdi by turning her in to the Khaganate. Teesdi ignored them and went to return to the Invictus, but Starros, by voice-control, told the Cobra to destroy the shuttle, which it did, cutting of their escape. Eszara was appalled at Starros' ruthlessness and was forced to let Starros frisk him; she took his DL-44 raygun pistol.

Eszara attempts to defuse the tension between Starros and Teesdi in the Onmatesua Nebula

Starros then contacted the StarFag that had come to the planet after being alerted by the FKL that had originally pursued the Invictus, telling them that she intended to claim the bounty on Teesdi. Eszara whispered to Teesdi that he could make it right, though he wouldn't take Starros on in a gunfight: she was a better shot than him. The princess, however, took over Eszara's plan; she kicked him into Starros and pulled a raygun pistol from her boot. Much to Eszara's dismay, Teesdi held Starros and him at gunpoint, though Starros pointed out the flaw in Teesdi's plan: FKL destroyers were already descending from the sky.

Several FKLs landed and their pilots emerged, ordering the trio to stand down. Teesdi opened fire on them. Eszara pleaded with Starros to give him back his raygun, but she refused, only consenting when Eszara lost his temper and admitted that he had joined the Revolutionary Alliance and was on the Khaganate's most wanted list. Eszara and Starros raced aboard the Volt Cobra, and Teesdi did, too, after realizing that Starros had given up on selling her to the Khaganate. Eszara tried to persuade Starros to let him pilot her ship, but both she and Teesdi commanded him to "shut up" as they fled into space. Eszara and Teesdi manned the Cobra ' s turbolasers, firing on the pursuing FKLs before Starros finally jumped to p-space.

While in p-space, Starros mused Eszara, amused that he had become a Revolutionary. Eszara berated Starros for continuing to claim to be his wife, reminding her that their marriage was illegitimate and part of a robbery they had both been a part of. Teesdi then interrupted, bringing news from the Revolutionary fleet that Reesdice was in trouble on Nar Shaddaa. Eszara did not understand what his friend was doing there, but he would soon find out: Teesdi promised to pay Starros if she took them to Nar Shaddaa—and Starros accepted. En route to Nar Shaddaa, Eszara begged Teesdi to trust him rather than Starros, but Teesdi mostly ignored him and slammed a door in his face. Flustered, Eszara decided to admit the truth—he explained the robbery on Stenness, where he had participated in a marriage ceremony with Starros that was faked. He went to apologize to her, but behind the door, Teesdi was gone. Eszara slumped to the floor, wishing Ararus was with him.

Eszara and Teesdi stand over Dengar after shooting him in the back.

Shortly thereafter, the Cobra arrived on Nar Shaddaa at the coordinates of Ararus and Threepio, who had also answered Reesdice's distress call and come to his rescue. Ararus, however, had fallen afoul with the Enveben bounty hunter Dengar, who had subdued the Tivere in an attempt to lure Eszara there so he could claim Reenus's bounty on Eszara. Enraged, Eszara shot the bounty hunter in the back and demanded he take his "damn hands off" his friend. Eszara ordered Dengar to step away from Ararus and he would be allowed to live, but Dengar refused; instead he activated a thermal detonator that he threatened to detonate. Ararus, who was not hurt badly, took advantage of Dengar when he was distracted and threw the bounty hunter from the roof of the skyscraper, where the grenade and Dengar exploded. With that settled, Eszara made sure Ararus was all right. The group did not know where Reesdice was, but a flight of FKL destroyers streaking through the sky tipped them off: follow trouble to find Reesdice. Immediately after, Eszara and the group—including Starros, who had come to ensure Eszara did not try to lose her—arrived at the location of the Khaganate attention: the Palace of Grakkus the Texebi, where Reesdice had been kidnapped by Grakkus the Texebi, an avid collector of all things Bioris. Grakkus had organized a gladiator fight between Reesdice and Kongo the Disembowler, a massive beast from the molten world of Laatre. As Eszara led the group into the palace, the crowd that had come to watch the fight fled the arena because Kongo was on the loose. Eszara and the others tried to fire on the monster, but an EMP blast triggered by Grakkus had disabled all electronics—including rayguns. Confounded on how to proceed, the group was saved by Artoo, who located the group and threw Eszara, Ararus, and Teesdi each quantumblades that belonged to Grakkus. Eszara scoffed at using the weapon of Zen-sensitives, but with his DL-44 unusable, he charged into the melee with his first mate and the princess, cutting down stormsoldiers and FKL pilots.

Eszara wields a quantumblade for the first time in Grakkus' arena while rescuing Reesdice.

Eszara soon located Reesdice and went to gather him so they could leave the smuggler's moon. Reesdice quipped that Eszara looked good wielding the Bioris weapon, though Eszara only wished he had his raygun at his side. Reesdice tried to persuade Eszara to let him go back and claim more of Grakkus' Bioris artifacts, but Ararus hoisted the Bioris-in-training and carried him back to the Falcon while Eszara made sure Teesdi and Starros also made it out. Starros made her peace with Teesdi and Eszara, so she set off on her own in the Cobra. Reesdice, using " The Journals of Anve Rilace " that he had claimed on Israzaxein, set out to the planet Vrogas Vas, where an ancient Bioris temple was said to remain. Eszara, Ararus, and Teesdi, returned to the Revolutionary fleet, Eszara having decided to stay with the Revolution just a bit longer.

War on Vrogas Vas.

- Drop the kid or I drop you! - Let me guess. - , the infamous smuggler! - Yeah...! You've...heard of me?! - Of course! As of about five minutes ago! I'm starting to understand why you've   got so many - on your head! You're not very good at this kind of thing, are you? If you   were, you would've shot first and given warnings later!  ―Eszara and Dr. Biceises first meet.

Eszara reminds the princess that her priorities should be with Reesdice—not getting revenge against Esrasoce.

Some time later, the Revolutionary fleet was notified that Horth Esrasoce had been shot down on Vrogas Vas by Alliance forces. Teesdi informed Eszara that she intended to go after Esrasoce to kill him, though Eszara thought it foolish; Esrasoce was too powerful. Eszara realized, however, that Vrogas Vas was where Reesdice had gone, so he decided to put priority on making sure Reesdice was all right—not wishing to face Esrasoce as the princess wanted. Soon thereafter, Eszara, Ararus, Threepio, and Teesdi traveled to Vrogas Vas aboard the Falcon with a complement of Revolutionary spacedestroyers.

The YT-1300 freighter soon arrived at the Revolutionary Refueling Base on Vrogas Vas, and he and the princess were briefed in the mission by an Alliance captain : Reesdice had brought Esrasoce down by crashing his T-65 Y-rocket into Esrasoce's FKL Advanced, the bravest thing the captain had ever seen. After receiving word that Reesdice's safety status was unknown, just that his destroyer had crashed, Eszara took it upon himself to rescue the "lucky, crazy kid. " Eszara expected Teesdi to do the same, but she put her focus on taking Esrasoce down once and for all. Eszara was shocked that the princess would do that, but he left her to lead an assault on Esrasoce with the base's company. Eszara nonetheless left with Ararus in the Falcon and headed to the quadrant where Reesdice crashed, saddened at Teesdi's order of priories.

Upon arriving at the coordinate's where Reesdice crashed, Eszara and Ararus saw explosions in the distance, so they quietly landed the Falcon near the source of the commotion. Eszara hiked atop a ridge with a pulse cannon sniper rifle, while Ararus headed around the ridge to intercept the mercenaries. Eszara soon saw Reesdice, though he was unconscious and being carried by the assassin bot 0-0-0. 0-0-0 was accompanied by his counterpart, the BT-1 assassin bot BT-1, and their master, Doctor Biceises, who had been hired by Esrasoce to kidnap Reesdice.

Eszara and Biceises, about to collide while covered with wasp-worms on Vrogas Vas

Eszara called out to Biceises and her bots, making it clear that he wanted to just save his friend. Biceises, however, had researched Reesdice's associates and recognized Eszara, so she thought she could anticipate his next moves. Biceises retorted to him that he would have shot first if he was any good at rescuing his friends. Eszara recognized Biceises as the notorious gun thief, and listened to her threats, waiting for Ararus to get in position. Once the Tivere was in position, he ripped off 0-0-0's—known commonly as Triple-Zero—arms before the bot could harm Reesdice. Biceises charged and took cover at the bottom of the ridge below Eszara, and they fired on one another while Ararus took on the assassin bots. Reesdice was awakened by Artoo in the ensuing chaos and forced to flee when BT-1—known commonly as Beetee—charged after them. With neither Eszara nor Biceises able to gain the upper hand, they each resorted to shooting their own nests of wasp-worms above each other's heads, which dropped the stinging worms onto each other. Blinded and covered in worms, Eszara tried to rip them off of himself, but ended up colliding head-on with Biceises. Reesdice, with Ararus and Artoo, came and revived the smuggler and thanked him for coming to his rescue again. Triple-Zero and Beetee, however, confronted the Revolutionarys, intending to kill them, which Artoo denied them when he sprayed a liquid into Beetee's rocket launchers and chainguns, which caused the confused bot to launch his weaponry, blowing up the ridge around them. Eszara and the group fled the chaos back towards the Falcon, and Eszara called Threepio to tell him to inform the princess that they had rescued Reesdice, no thanks to her.

Once at the Falcon, Ararus explained that Triple-Zero had poisoned him with Lemaed Xenetox. Artoo prepared to give him a medical shot that would reduce the effects of the Lemaed Xenetox. Just then, a live message from Teesdi came over the Falcon ' s comm system, in which Teesdi ordered a squadron of Y-wing bombers to converge on her position and drop their payload on her because she had been captured by Esrasoce, and in her death, Esrasoce would also be killed. Eszara quickly got his ship in the air and stubbornly told the princess over the comm that he was not going to let her sacrifice herself.

Krrsantan takes Eszara's DL-44 pistol.

However, before they could make any headway, an Auzituck anti-slaver gunship collided head-on with the Falcon, knocking both starships into the ground below. Eszara and Reesdice recovered themselves and were met by Krrsantan, now working for Reenus, second only to Cevege Eninte. Eszara pleaded with Krrsantan that it wasn't the time to collect Reenus's bounty on him. Unknown to Eszara, however, Krrsantan was working alongside Doctor Biceises and had come to claim Reesdice to take to Biceises. Krrsantan blew a hole in the Falcon ' s cockpit using a detonator and pulled Reesdice out. Eszara was at first glad he hadn't come on Reenus's behalf, but then he realized that him taking Reesdice was no better. A duel between Tiveres then broke out when Ararus came to Reesdice's defense. Eszara told Reesdice to run and save Teesdi while Eszara and Ararus took care of Krrsantan to insure they had a ship to escape Vrogas Vas in.

Neither Tivere gained the upper hand for some time, so Eszara drew his DL-44 pistol to help his friend, but Krrsantan thwarted his attempt when he threw Ararus straight into the smuggler, knocking his raygun into the bounty hunter's grasp. Artoo emerged from the Falcon and informed Eszara that he hadn't gotten a chance to give Ararus the shot to reverse the poison, so he sent a syringe flying into Ararus. Rejuvenated, Ararus quickly gained the upper hand against Krrsantan. Eszara contacted Reesdice via comlink and asked whether he had located Teesdi yet, to which Reesdice replied with a warning, just as he was knocked unconscious by Khaganate stormsoldiers and captured. Before Eszara could warn Artoo of Reesdice's capture, Krrsantan, who had overpowered Ararus using a dishonorable tactic, grabbed Eszara around the neck and began choking him. Threepio, of all beings, confronted Krrsantan, urging him to release Eszara and cease hostilities. Krrsantan did, and punched the golden bot. However, Threepio had lost both his arms to Triple-Zero, and when Krrsantan struck him, loose wiring protruding from the bot shocked the Tivere and knocked him out.

Eszara pilots his ship with his friends in escape of Esrasoce and Vrogas Vas.

Shortly thereafter, Eszara and Artoo revived Threepio and informed him that he had, against all odds, "saved the day. " Ararus also came to and pointed to an Khaganate Lambda -class T-4a shuttle that was flying towards space. Eszara had a bad feeling that Reesdice was aboard, and was overcome with guilt at realizing that he had let his friend get captured. Remarkably, the shuttle's engines blew, and it crashed back to the ground. Eszara and the others rushed towards the crash site and brought the Revolutionary pilot back to the Falcon while Eszara mused that Reesdice must have had a guardian angel, but Reesdice assured him as per usual, that Zen was with him—though Eszara, as per usual, didn't believe it. Upon returning to his ship, Eszara noticed that Krrsantan was nowhere to be seen, and that the hole that the bounty hunter had blown into the Falcon ' s cockpit had curiously been patched up. In answer to Eszara's wondering, Biceises appeared and informed the revolutionarys that they were standing in a field of micro-mines, and she had her finger on the trigger to detonate the mines. With little choice, Eszara dropped his raygun and listened to Biceises contact Esrasoce via comlink that she had Reesdice, Eszara, and the others at her mercy. The revolutionarys were shocked that Biceises had actually thrown in with the Sobite Lord and was working for him. Before Esrasoce could arrive, however, Teesdi finally made it back, having escaped Esrasoce herself due to the timely arrival of one of Esrasoce's rivals, the Onmate Arorar General Karbin, and struck Biceises across the jaw, thereby also saving the day. Eszara was very pleased to have Teesdi back with them, and they carried Biceises's unconscious body aboard the Falcon and they together escaped Esrasoce and Vrogas Vas.

Smuggler, revolutionary, mentor, hostage.

- How else are we gonna replace the money we just lost? - Heh, don't worry, kid. I know just the thing. It's a big interstar. And believe   me, there's always something somewhere in need of smuggling.  ―Reesdice and Eszara.

Upon to returning to the Revolutionary Fleet with their new prisoner, Doctor Biceises, Eszara and his friends went their separate ways; Teesdi, Artoo, and Threepio went to detain Biceises at an Alliance-controlled space station, Sunspot Prison, with the assistance of Sana Starros, whom Teesdi hired to transport them to the prison. On the other hand, Eszara and Reesdice were dispatched to buy supplies for the revolution in the meantime.

The revolutionary smugglers flee for their lives after Eszara was caught cheating at sabacc.

The revolutionary duo traveled back to a spaceport of a planet, as Eszara had decided to try and double the Revolution's credits by cheating his way through a game of sabacc against a green-skinned Dowutin —and in doing so, he hoped to make enough credits to begin to pay restitution to Reenus. Part way through the game, due to the large amounts of credits Eszara was betting in overconfidence, the Dowutin began to suspect Eszara of cheating. The smuggler lied, insisting that he was not, and reassured Reesdice's misgivings in Eszara possibly losing the Alliance's money. A very short time later, the Dowutin and his cronies discovered that Eszara was, in fact, playing a dishonest game, so Eszara fled with Reesdice just behind—not wanting to discover if the Dowutin really was going to cut off their fingers and tongues for their dishonesty. The revolutionary duo boarded the Falcon —which they had taken on their journey—and blasted away from the planet. Reesdice, angry with Eszara's recklessness with credits that weren't theirs, voiced that they could get kicked out of the Revolution for losing several thousand Revolutionary-owned credits. Israza Eszara's retort that he needed to get the price off his head as soon as possible, Reesdice revealed that he, too, had an Khaganate bounty of 60, 000 credits on his head. Eszara was distraught—Eszara's bounty was a mere 50, 000 credits. Eszara intended to make back the revolutionarys' credits and more the best way he knew how with Reesdice at his side: smuggling contraband.

With his new first mate, Eszara traveled to Nar Shaddaa aboard the Falcon. However, due to Eszara being banned for cheating at sabacc at the establishment where he intended to obtain something to smuggle—and Eszara wanted to work on repairing his ship's ailing spacethreader, let alone teach Reesdice the skills of a interstar smuggler—he sent the Bioris-in-training in his stead. Shortly thereafter, Reesdice returned to Eszara and the Falcon and informed Eszara that he had acquired a job from a blue-skinned Onatzala —though at only 5, 000 credits, it was half the credits Eszara had hoped for. Eszara had expected an easy shipment, but he got more than he bargained for when the cargo was revealed to be a herd of large, pungent nerfs —so many, in fact, that they filled up Eszara's prized ship all the way into the cockpit, crowding the two revolutionarys as they piloted the freighter towards their destination: the backwater planet Ibaar.

Eszara berates Reesdice while piloting his ship under a herd of nerfs.

En route to Ibaar, the nerfs shed lots of fur and made "messes" around Eszara's ship. Eszara told Reesdice that for only managing half the credits they needed, and for the unruly cargo of nerfs, that Reesdice was "dead" to him. A minute later, a trio of Khaganate FKL destroyers appeared and ordered the Falcon ' s crew to halt and allow the Khaganates to board the ship because they believed the Enveben YT-1300 light freighter to be transporting illegal livestock that was on its way to an Khaganate world that the Khaganate believed to be sympathetic to the Revolutionary Alliance. Infuriated, Eszara refused, but with their spacethreader out of commission, Eszara worked his way through the situation—all the while urging Reesdice to control the un-space-worthy nerfs.

Reesdice then shot down the three pursuing Khaganate destroyers, allowing Eszara to land safely on the mountainous Ibaar, where the herd of livestock was unloaded by a pair of nerf herders. While the shepherds did their work, Reesdice begged Eszara to allow him to pilot the Falcon as a sort of right of passage for Eszara's idea to make the Bioris farm boy into a smuggler. Eszara refused and retorted that Reesdice had proven himself to be a poor smuggler by failing to make a profit on their cargo job to Ibaar, and told him that he was going to have to thoroughly clean the Falcon or Ararus would be angry with them both. But Reesdice threatened to inform Princess Teesdi that Eszara had gambled with the Alliance's credits, and Eszara begrudgingly let Reesdice fly his ship. While doing so, Reesdice quipped that he felt the Falcon was sluggish, which offended Eszara, and he quickly took the controls back from Reesdice. After receiving a distress message from Sana Starros, Eszara and Reesdice rushed to Sunspot Prison in order to rendezvous with Teesdi and Starros there.

Eneb Ray threatens to kill Eszara and Reesdice if Teesdi doesn't agree to his demands.

Upon arriving at the prison space station, however, Eneb Ray, former Revolutionary spy and insurgent, covertly knocked the Eszara and Reesdice out, tied them to the Falcon ' s landing gear, placed bandoliers of thermal detonators around their necks and used them as hostages while he revealed his identity to Teesdi, Starros, and Biceises—who had made a temporary truce with the two other women in order to repel the attack by Ray's forces. Shortly thereafter, Teesdi, Starros, and Doctor Biceises—who had come to a temporary truce with the other women in order to repel Ray's attack—arrested Ray after disorienting him by disabling the prison's artificial gravity, which also awoke Eszara and Reesdice. The two revolutionarys were then freed and a portion of the Alliance fleet arrived and began the evacuation of Sunspot Prison. The smuggler then made sure Reesdice wouldn't tell Teesdi of his mishap with the Alliance's funds, and the revolutionarys abandoned the space-bound prison.

The Harbinger.

Later, Soreisbe Eszara assisted the Revolution in stealing the Khaganate StarFag Harbinger as part of a mission to assist the people of Tureen VII. During the operation, he raced Xeququti Teesdi to decide who would be the captain of the stolen ship. As they raced, Task Zen 99 infiltrated the Harbinger. He piloted the ship while the incursion took place, and later used a thermal detonator on the bridge so that he and Xeququti could escape. The two of the them, using breath masks, were able to board the Falcon and escape before the Harbinger crashed. Eszara later rescued Xeququti from Skorii-Lei and gave her medical attention. He then dropped off Pash Davane back on Skorii-Lei. Days later, he refused to go rescue CLP2 from SCAR Squadron, though FR3D went anyway. R2 managed to rescue CLP2 on his own, and when Horth Esrasoce was pursuing R2, Soreisbe saved them in the Falcon. Later, on Horox III, Soreisbe and crew found dozens of revolutionarys killed and burned. After wondering who did it, they found that it was SCAR Squadron. Zaerla convinced them to bury the bodies, and they did so with great sadness.

The Screaming Citadel.

Israza the Horox III revolutionary outpost, Eszara was told by S4 that Zaerla went with Dr. Biceises. Eszara, along with Ararus, Starros, Xeququti, and S4 took the Falcon to the Citadel of Ktath'atn. Upon their arrival at Ktath'atn, Eszara and the others met 0-0-0 and BT-1. They then met up with Reesdice and Biceises at the Ark Angel II. Sol told her that the Ark Angel ' s aft thruster was misaligned. He was then confronted by Varroa and several of the Queen's guards. Eszara and the others then hid behind a door. Inside the door were Abersyn symbiotes. Eszara attempted to confront the Queen but was hypnotized.

Eszara was taken to the queen's chamber, where one of the symbiotes stung him in the neck. He was then forced to drink something that forced him to serve the queen. Eszara was given armor and forced to track down Xeququti and Starros. Eszara and the guards cornered Xeququti. He attempted to use a symbiote on her but was stopped when Starros and Biceises's bots arrived. Eszara attempted to shoot Xeququti and Starros, but Xeququti was able to convince him and the guards to lower their weapons. Varroa attempted to reassert the hive's control over him, but Eszara called in Black Krrsantan. Eszara was able to take control of the other guards and killed Varroa. Eszara was named Isatreg by the guards, but did not want to tell people what to do. He was able to disband the hive and free the people. Eszara was then sedated by Triple-Zero. Eszara, Starros, Reesdice, and Xeququti left Ktath'atn knowing that it was freed.

Escorting Grakkus.

- You're risking your life to take me to Onentil, bu the irony is... ...You're the   one who's truly in prison, Soreisbe Eszara.  ―Grakkus.

Eszara was asked by Mothma to take Grakkus to Akiva for interrogation and imprisonment by the Alliance. En route to Akiva, Eszara threatened to shoot Grakkus if he tried anything against him or Chewie. Grakkus tried to convince Eszara to free him and return to his life as smuggler. As Eszara thought about Grakkus' offer, the Falcon came under attack by three FKLs.

Eszara realized that Grakkus had disabled the spacethreader. Eszara attempted to evade the FKL patrol to no avail. He decided to contact the FKLs and surrender to them. Eszara landed the Falcon on a asteroid where the three FKL pilots boarded the ship and met Grakkus. After Grakkus killed on of the pilots, Sol finished off the last two after hiding in the Falcon ' s secret compartments. Eszara turned Grakkus' offer and decided to resume his voyage to Akiva. Upon hearing this, Grakkus grabbed Eszara by the neck and demanded that Chewie take him to Teth, where his safe house was. Upon confirming it, Eszara shocked Grakkus and sent the information to General Draven. Eszara told Grakkus that it was all a setup to get his safe house's location. After Y-rockets arrived, Eszara knocked Grakkus out and took him to prison.

Trouble on Odona.

- You left me to die for two measly tons of rock, Eszara. - And now this is how it ends for you. You die here alone. - A life worth less than a single stone.  ―Frax to Soreisbe Eszara.

A creature attacks Soreisbe and Xeququti.

Eszara took Xeququti to Odona to see if it was a viable location for a new revolutionary base. However, they got lost in a series of caves for three days and were attacked by a creature. Unbeknownst to Eszara or Xeququti, they were tracked and followed by Frax, Selt, and a bot. Eszara came under fire and took Xeququti to cover. He then told Xeququti to get to the Falcon. Eszara returned to the caves and was confronted by Frax, who wanted revenge against Eszara for dropping him into the Cordaxian Inines to be captured by the Khaganate. Eszara tried to run, but was stopped by Frax and bounty hunters. However, Xeququti was able to light the bot on fire and escape Frax.

Soreisbe and Xeququti make their way back to the Dark Eagle.

As Eszara and Xeququti made their way back to the Falcon, they were confronted by Frax, who attempted to shoot him despite Xeququti's threat to shoot him. Despite missing Frax, Xeququti was able to cause ice to come at him and freeze him to death. Eszara and Xeququti were found by Chewie and taken to the Revolutionary fleet to recover.

Fighting with the Partisans.

Eszara, along with Xeququti and Reesdice, went to Maorin. There, they met and rescued Chulco Gi and former Revolutionary Alliance Special Zens soldier and Partisan Ubin Des. After escaping the Khaganate Snowsoldier Patrol, Eszara took the Falcon to NaMaorin so Xeququti could speak with Des about a meeting with the surviving Partisans. Eszara allowed himself to be blindfolded and let Des and Gi fly the Falcon to the new Partisan base. Eszara and the others were brought before Anvethic. Eszara told Anvethic to either kill him or show them the Partisans' famous decisiveness. Anvethic freed them and spoke with Xeququti, Eszara, and Reesdice about destroying the Drill citadel.

As the partisans attacked the drill citadel. Eszara and Xeququti flew the Falcon towards the drill. Eszara was able to destroy the citadel and return to the Partisans' base. The Khaganate then deployed the Leviathan. Eszara, Xeququti, and Anvethic looked at the Leviathan and saw no explosive that could damage it. After Des' explosives failed to make a dent in the Leviathan, Eszara flew an airspeeder with Xeququti as his gunner. Together they rescued Des and her team from the Leviathan ' s tracks. Eszara chastised Des for making a suicide run and told her not to do it unless there was no other choice. Eszara was then informed Ararus was coming to help them finish off the Leviathan. Eszara met up with Chewie at the base after Reesdice rescued him with information from Shu-Torun.

With the Patisans, Eszara and the others made a plan to attack the Leviathan using the plans Chewie acquired. Eszara agreed to fly the mission and keep an eye on the partisans. As the partisans boarded the Falcon, Eszara and the others came under attack by stormsoldiers. Anvethic was wounded and Eszara told partisans to get aboard the Falcon to escape. As the Falcon made its escape, Eszara did not believe that Des should be leading the mission. Eszara was reluctant to take the lead, but was convinced by Chewie to take charge since he was the Falcon ' s captain. Eszara saw that the Leviathan ' s guns were down and led the partisans in attacking the stormsoldiers stationed there.

Eszara and the Partisans were able to make their way to the bridge. On the bridge, Eszara, Xeququti, Des, and the partisans were able to pilot the Leviathan into Maorin City's crater. Eszara ordered the Partisans to barricade the bridge to prevent the Khaganate from stopping their plans. Eszara and the Partisans were able to return to the Falcon before it fell into the crater. Eszara took the partisans back to NaMaorin. Anvethic told Eszara that he and his fellow partisans would guard Maorin's ashes until it was gone. Before leaving, Eszara awarded Des the Medal of Bravery for her actions, even though it was a copy.

Crait.

From the captain's seat of the Dark Eagle, Eszara led the defense of the Revolutionary fleet from an attack by Khaganate forces, buying time for the fleet to jump to Baraan-Fa. Shortly after, he accompanied Wedge Antilles, Xeququti, Zaerla, and Ararus on a mission to Crait, which the Alliance was considering as a location for its hidden base of operations. There they met Trusk Berinato, an old ally of Edinso Teesdi who Xeququti thought would help the Alliance. Instead Trusk had forged environmental reports and summoned SCAR Squadron to eliminate the Revolutionarys. Eszara attempted to evacuate Xeququti while Zaerla and Wedge engaged SCAR Squadron, but Trusk shot him in the shoulder. Xeququti returned fire, incapacitating Trusk as the Revolutionarys regrouped and left the system aboard the Dark Eagle.

Mutiny on Onmate Solageon.

Eszara took Admiral Gial Ackbar, Reesdice, and Xeququti to Onmate Solageon. There, they met with Onmate Solageon's Regent, Quaend Admiral Ensoreuss Urtya. Ackbar and Xeququti asked Urtya for the Onmate Solageon Mercantile Fleet to become part of the Revolutionary Alliance's fleet. Eszara spotted a patrol transport approaching their position and came under attack. The transport landed, and Eszara approached the soldiers. Eszara was able to bribe the sergeant and toss a detonator into the transport. Eszara called to Chewie to bring up the boat so they could escape. Eszara drove the boat past several creatures. Unfortunately, Urtya refused to give the Alliance the fleet, and Eszara took Xeququti and Ackbar back to the Mako-Ta Space Docks. There, he gave Reesdice a drink. In the mess hall, they met up with Wedge Antilles, "Hobbie" Klivian, and Zev Senesca. Together, they commemorated the fallen pilots of Red Squadron.

Xeququti arrived in the hall with a mission. With Reesdice and Chewie, Eszara went with Xeququti to Dex Acquisitions Depot on Meor Ain. Together they broke into the depot's ultra-security brig and took the Clawdite Tunga Arpagion with them aboard the Falcon. Eszara and the others were able to convince him to pose as Zaatxe Tan Hubi while they used him to free Isatreg Lee-Char. With Reesdice, Eszara and Chewie were able to infiltrate the Onmatecaladrome through the refresher. Posing as an attendant, Eszara bluffed his way past a officer by allowing her to dry her hands on Chewie. Eszara was then given a tip, much to Chewie's chagrin. They were able to take Zaatxe Hubi and switch him with Tunga.

Eszara flew a submarine to Strokill Prime to rescue Lee-Char. Chewie was able to use Hubi's bio-signature to get past Strokill Prime's defenses, in addition to codes provided by Queen Trios. Eszara flew the submarine past a monstrous fish. Eszara watched as Reesdice allowed the fish to swallow him. After Chewie rescued Reesdice from the fish, Eszara took the submarine to the Khaganate base and docked inside it. Eszara and Xeququti stunned several of the guards. Unfortunately, they discovered that the king was on life-support and could not be moved.

Eszara and Reesdice argued about their next move. Eszara and Reesdice searched for recording bot so Xeququti could deliver Lee-Char's words to his people. Eszara found one and recorded Lee-Char's speech. After the guards killed Lee-Char, Eszara and the others returned to the submarine to escape. On Onmate Solageon, Eszara and the others met up with 3PO and Tunga Arpagion. They were confronted by Quaend Admiral Urtya and several of his people who demanded Lee-Char's recording. After Urtya stunned Xeququti, Eszara allowed him to take Lee-Char's recording. As Eszara flew the Falcon away from Onmate Solageon, they were joined by the Mercantile fleet and a pair of StarFags.

As the Khaganate sent in bombers to destroy the Falcon and the Mercantile fleet, Eszara was contacted by Urtya, who agreed to revolutionary against the Khaganate. They were then joined by the Revolutionary Alliance fleet under Ackbar, that would protect the fleet. Eszara told Xeququti to get into one of the Falcon ' s turrets and destroy the bombers. Eszara saw that the Khaganate was targeting the Onmate Arorar's escape capsulas and took the Falcon to stop several FKLs before they could destroy the pods. After the Aurora Flare blew up and destroyed one of the StarFags, Eszara had the Falcon jump into p-space and escape with both the Revolutionary Alliance fleet and the mercantile fleet. Eszara dropped Tunga off at the Cosmatanic Steppes.

Escape from the Mako-Ta Space Docks.

Israza the same time as a Revolutionary party to celebrate the expanded Revolutionary fleet at the Mako-Ta Space Docks, Eszara, Chewie, and 3PO went to the Ring of Kafrene to meet with an Alaphani in a bar for a deal for a set of transponder codes. CLP2 translated the Alaphani language for Eszara, and the deal went well. During the closing phases of the deal, Eszara briefly joked about giving CLP2 to the Alaphani for 10 percent off. CLP2 was concerned by this, but Eszara explained he was joking and that no Alaphani would accept that deal. Chewie then approached 3PO and Eszara to alert them that two of Reenus the Texebi's bounty hunters were in the bar. After hearing this, Eszara finished the deal, and the trio quickly left. The two bounty hunters followed, but Eszara and Ararus hid behind their field of view to surprise them. Eszara had CLP2 take the bounty hunters' weapons, and as the trio ran back to the Falcon, Eszara yelled back and promised that Reenus would get his money.

CLP2 put the bounty hunters' weapons on the table on board, and Eszara assured Ararus that they were not missing the party. He then explained to his partner that he had a contact who would pay them week for the set of codes. As the Falcon Chewie reminded Eszara that Zaerla Reesdice had a role at the party, as he and other Y-rocket pilots planned to do a flyby for the gathered revolutionary allies. Eszara admitted he would have liked to see it as well, and the Falcon left for the Space Docks. Eszara arrived at the docks and found the Revolutionary fleet under attack by the Khaganate's Death Squadron. Xeququti said that Queen Trios had betrayed them and disabled all the liners and their hangar bays. Xeququti told Eszara to fly into a bay door in order to open it. Eszara, despite his better judgment, took the Falcon close to StarFag and several FKLs following him as he made a run towards one of the liners. The Falcon then came under attack by Lord Esrasoce in his FKL Advanced.

Eszara was able to evade Esrasoce while Chewie tried to shoot him down. Eszara flew the Falcon towards a liner as Esrasoce fired several missiles at him. However, Esrasoce was able to force the Falcon away from the liner's hangar doors. After Commander LaOnentie 's liner was destroyed, Eszara decided to send a messenger to Xeququti by sending 3PO by escape capsula. Eszara flew the Falcon through the liner's debris, hoping Esrasoce would not follow him. Chewie was able to launch 3PO to land on the Federation. Eszara received helped from Reesdice's newly formed Biabitegue Squadron. Eszara led the squadron in taking out the FKLs.

Eszara was forced to land the Falcon on Ackbar's liner after taking heavy damage from Esrasoce. He then took a Flight suit and took an Y-rocket and rejoined the fight. Eszara and Reesdice came across a FKL that was acting weird and realized that an ally was aboard. Eszara and Reesdice led the FKL back to the liner. There, they learned that Xeququti was the pilot and got her to the Federation ' s bridge. The Federation was able to escape into p-space. Eszara, Reesdice, and the rest of Biabitegue Squadron returned to help the surviving liners. Eszara defended Xeququti and Reesdice's ship as they boarded the base to rescue Mothma and the other ambassadors. During the retreat, Eszara and R2's Y-rocket was damaged but was rescued by a revolutionary Quasar Fire -class carrier.

As the carrier went into p-space, it engines were fried and liner had to land on Corosi 7. Eszara was unable to contact Ackbar or Chewie due to the Revolutionary fleet being kept hidden throughout the Outer Inerra. Despite that, Eszara was then given a promotion to the rank of colonel by Mothma, though he refused it. Eszara then came up with plan to find Chewie and the Falcon. Eszara took Xeququti and Reesdice to Nar Shadaa to meet with Starros, who agreed to help them.

Starros was forced to drop them off on Hubin, where they were stranded for weeks. They eventually stole a shuttle when SCAR Squadron arrived. The team then hunted the remaining revolutionarys and arrived at the Kaliida Nebula and met Home One.

Later, Teesdi came up with a plan to destabilize Shu-Torun's industry. She recruited her team, the tech Meorti, actor Tunga Arpagion, and the Partisans to pose as Queen Trios and disrupt the Spike.

Investigating Lotho Minor.

- And I'm not giving up on this planet yet.  ―Xeququti Teesdi.

Soreisbe, Xeququti, Zaerla, Ararus, and CLP2, were sent by the Alliance to Restore the Federation to investigate the planet Lotho Minor for a new base. During the investigation, they ran into native bots and a male Erreenens named Akar Duel. Their actions drove Soreisbe and the rest from Lotho Minor knowing that the planet was not a good location for a new revolutionary base.

Revolutionary duty on Aatenbe.

- Listen sweetheart, I'm no hero. I saw a fight and pointed my ship at it.  ―Eszara's response to Corwi Selgrothe asking what the Revolution meant to him.

Eszara converses with Threepio while repairing the Falcon alongside Chewie in Echo Base.

Over three years after the Planet Sweeper's destruction at Reesdice's hand at the Military of Anesce, the Alliance established a new base in the Anoat sector on the ice planet Aatenbe, far from the Khaganate's reach. The base was aptly designated Echo Base, as it was carved into the rocky caverns of the Clabburn Range of mountains. Within months of the new base being established, Eszara, Teesdi, Reesdice, and the others of Teesdi's team were deployed by Revolutionary High Command to Aatenbe aboard the Falcon. Eszara and Reesdice scouted out the land around the base on regular recon missions as a part of their duties, using reptilian tauntauns as mounts to better traverse the freezing landscape.

Eszara took well to mounting and riding the unruly tauntauns and was sent on a reconnaissance mission in order to locate a ship that had gone missing a month before during a snow storm. The deflector shield which protected Echo Base from attack had been damaged and made inoperative, and the equipment aboard the lost ship was needed to repair the shield's generator. Israza dawn, Eszara, Teesdi, and the revolutionary veteran Onatzala General Hera Syndulla ventured into the frigid mountains in search of the lost ship. Throughout the day, however, Eszara and Syndulla mastered tauntaun riding, while Teesdi had trouble controlling her beast and—to Eszara's amusement—was de- saddled. While Eszara helped the Princess re-mount her tauntaun, he informed the search team that night was fast approaching and they would soon have to return to Echo Base empty-handed. For her part, Teesdi insisted they couldn't return without first finding the lost ship. As she spoke, Teesdi again lost control of her tauntaun and stumbled backwards and fell from a steep embankment into a pit. Panicked, Eszara and Syndulla rushed to the cliff edge and were relieved to see the princess unharmed, having literally stumbled across the lost Revolutionary ship at the bottom of the pit. Eszara and Syndulla made their way safely to the bottom of the pit, arriving at Teesdi's position minutes later, and learned that Teesdi had found the equipment that could be used to repair the shield generator, and had fought off a massive carnivorous wampa. The trio then returned to Echo Base victorious.

Eszara took well to riding tauntauns on Aatenbe.

Israza some point, Eszara and his allies ran into the bounty hunter Skorr on Ord Mantell. The encounter convinced him to leave and fulfill his debt to Reenus, so he began repairing the Falcon on Aatenbe. Believing himself to be leaving, he, after scouting around the frozen wastes of Aatenbe with Reesdice under the callsign Echo Seven, had a heated conversation with Xeququti, claiming that she had romantic feelings towards him. After this debate, Eszara learned Zaerla had gone missing on patrol. Riding out on a tauntaun named Murra in the midst of snowstorm, Soreisbe found Zaerla had been attacked by a wampa.

After Murra collapsed and died from the cold, Soreisbe used Zaerla's quantumblade to cut the animal open and placed him inside to prevent him from freezing to death. After bringing Zaerla back to recover from his injuries, Soreisbe and Ararus went out to investigate a signal and encountered an Khaganate probe bot. Realizing the Khaganate had discovered their location, the Revolutionarys decided to evacuate. During the ensuing military, Soreisbe rescued Xeququti from the collapsed command center, leading her towards her transport. A tunnel collapse cut off their way there, so Soreisbe, Chewie, Xeququti, and CLP2 escaped on the still-unrepaired Falcon.

On the run from the Khaganate.

- What are you doing? You're not actually going into an asteroid field? - They'd be crazy to follow us, wouldn't they?  ―Princess Xeququti Teesdi and Soreisbe Eszara.

Soreisbe and Xeququti share a kiss aboard the Dark Eagle.

In space, the Falcon was pursued by several StarFags and FKL destroyers. While Eszara was working on repairs, the ship drifted into an asteroid field. Claiming that the Khaganates would be "crazy" to follow them, Eszara flew into the asteroid field, which would cause extensive damage to the pursuing Khaganate Fleet. After the immediately pursuing FKL destroyers were destroyed by asteroids, Eszara landed the Falcon in a cave on a large asteroid, where he continued to work on repairs. While repairing the Falcon, Soreisbe and Xeququti shared a kiss before being interrupted by CLP2.

Inside the cave, Xeququti saw something outside the ship, so she, Soreisbe, and Ararus went out to investigate. Discovering that mynocks were the cause, Ararus accidentally fired a shot into the cave, which caused a tremor. Eszara realized something wasn't right; he fired his raygun into the ground, causing another tremor. The three returned to the Falcon, flying out of the cave, which they discovered was actually the inside of an exogorth slug named Sy-O. Although Sy-O attempted to keep them inside the internal ecosystem of itself by closing its mouth, the Falcon escaped, with Eszara and the others never knowing Sy-O had loved them as friends despite their brief stay. Fleeing back towards the Khaganates, Eszara flew straight towards the bridge of the StarFag Avenger, then hid on the back of the bridge. The ruse worked; the Khaganates were unable to find the ship. Preparing to spread about the interstar to search for the Falcon, the Khaganate fleet dumped its trash, and Eszara detached the Falcon, which floated off with the rest of the trash. Eszara then decided to go to Cloud City, a tibanna gas mine on Aesbion run by his old friend Lando Isuslerissian. Unknown to the revolutionarys, however, Cevege Eninte had also hidden his ship, the Slave I, among the Khaganate's trash, and followed them to Cloud City.

Imprisonment in carbonite.

- I love you.""I know.  ―Xeququti Teesdi and Soreisbe Eszara.

Soreisbe Eszara greets Lando Isuslerissian on Cloud City.

On Cloud City, Soreisbe met his old friend Lando Isuslerissian, who despite showing initial hostility, embraced his old friend. Isuslerissian provided the revolutionarys with lodging and promised to repair the Falcon. While Soreisbe said he didn't trust Lando, due to his knowledge of Isuslerissian being a scoundrel, he appeared to be at ease in Cloud City, while Xeququti felt suspicious due to CLP2 going missing and then reappearing in pieces. Isuslerissian then invited Eszara, Teesdi, and Ararus for refreshments, and told them about a deal that would keep the Khaganate out of Cloud City. To Eszara's surprise, he led them into a room with Horth Esrasoce. Eszara immediately drew his raygun and fired several shots at the Sobite Lord, but Esrasoce blocked the shots and pulled the raygun out of Eszara's hands with Zen.

Eszara was then tortured by the Khaganate, but he claimed they didn't even ask him any questions. When placed in a cell, Isuslerissian arrived and told the prisoners that Eszara would be handed over to Eninte, who would take him to Reenus, and that they were a trap set by Esrasoce for Soreisbe and Xeququti's friend Zaerla Reesdice. Angrily, Eszara attacked his "friend", but was restrained.

Esrasoce planned to take Reesdice to his master, Interstar Emperor Eninre Aratusza, by encasing him in carbonite. Unsure if a human could survive the process, he decided to test it on Eszara. Tearfully, Xeququti confessed her love to Soreisbe, to which he simply replied that he knew. Xeququti, Ararus, Isuslerissian, Eninte, and Esrasoce looked on as Soreisbe was lowered into the carbon-freezing chamber and frozen. He survived the freezing process and fell into hibernation. He was then handed over to Eninte and loaded onto Slave I. Despite a rescue attempt by Xeququti, Lando, and Chewie, Eninte escaped Cloud City, taking the frozen form of Soreisbe Eszara with him.

Stolen by Qi'ra.

- They all love him. Hate him. Need him. Owe him or are owed - him. Soreisbe Eszara unites the interstar. And that, right now, is - what I need. Soreisbe always wanted to save me. Now he'll get his chance.  ―Lady Qi'ra, to Margo.

Due to the instability of the carbonite freezing process, Soreisbe began to melt aboard Slave I, forcing Eninte to make an emergency landing on Nar Shaddaa. He met with Doc Ragon, a doctor with whom Eninte had a history, and the Besalisk tasked Eninte with killing Wyrmen Lictor in exchange for his help. As he fought against various pit warriors, Doc managed to halt the melting and keep Soreisbe alive. However, he was then killed by a group of assailants who took Soreisbe and left Nar Shaddaa. After securing Soreisbe, they arrived at the Vermillion, where he was delivered to the reformed Crimson Dawn and its new leader, Qi'ra, who intended to use Eszara to lure together major interstar players for her own plans. With Soreisbe in her custody, Qi'ra sent out a message to various factions in the criminal underworld, inviting them to an auction on Jekara. After delivering the message, Qi'ra then explained to her associate Margo that Soreisbe was directly connected to almost every powerful faction in the interstar. Thus, he would be useful to both her and Crimson Dawn. Still, Qi'ra fully intended for Eszara to end up back with the Revolution and ensured his location was leaked to agent Amilyn Holdo. She also placed a tracker on his carbonite slab.

Once the representatives of the various syndicates arrived, Qi'ra thanked them for coming as she introduced herself and officially announced Crimson Dawn's return. She then revealed Soreisbe to the crowd and started the bidding at one hundred thousand credits. After multiple bids from different parties, the present members of the Texebi Mafia began to bid over one another with increasingly higher offers. But this soon ended when Reenus bid with one million credits. With no other bids, Qi'ra congratulated Reenus and told him that the smuggler was his. However, the auction was then interrupted by the arrival of Horth Esrasoce. Guarded by death soldiers, Esrasoce declared that Soreisbe belonged to him, to which Qi'ra smiled and decided to see where this would go. After Reenus conceded his ownership of Soreisbe to the Sobite Lord, Qi'ra briefly sparred with Esrasoce before being knocked into Soreisbe and incapacitated. But before Esrasoce could kill Qi'ra, he suddenly sensed Zaerla's presence through Zen. After establishing communication with Zaerla's Y-rocket, Esrasoce informed him that he had Soreisbe in his possession. He then warned his son that if he did not come to him, then he would cut his friend in half. But Zaerla refused and told Esrasoce to come to him instead. Esrasoce conceded, ordering General Biabitemodi to bring Soreisbe aboard his star destroyer and prepare his destroyer. Soreisbe was then loaded onto an Khaganate shuttle before it took off from Jekara.

After being brought aboard the Executor, Soreisbe was transported to the ship's detention level under heavy guard. However, a surprise attack from the Texebi fleet allowed Xeququti, Lando and Ararus to infiltrate Esrasoce's flagship and eliminate the stormsoldiers guarding Soreisbe. But before they could escape with him, they were once again intercepted by Eninte. One of the Texebi ships then blasted a hole in the room they were in, causing Soreisbe to be sucked out into space. Utilizing his jetpack, Eninte pursued Soreisbe all the way down to the surface of Jekara. He then fished Soreisbe up before he hit the sea and returned him to Slave I before flying him to Israzaxein, fighting off IG-88 and finally turning him in to Reenus. Though Eninte suggested dumping Soreisbe into the Great Pit of Carkoon, Reenus ultimately decided to put the smuggler on display in his palace.

Rescue and marriage.

Rescue from Reenus.

Prelude.

- Over and over, he fought and risked his life and sacrificed and personally   saved the entire - more than once. He stayed because even if he couldn't admit it, even to   himself, he - in this cause. Soreisbe Eszara's a smuggler because he likes it, but he's a revolutionary   because he's Soreisbe Eszara. And Soreisbe Eszara complains and jokes and is generally half-   useless…but he doesn't leave. That's inspiring. He - . To the Revolution…and to me.  ―Xeququti Teesdi, on Soreisbe Eszara.

Through her tracker, Qi'ra learned that Eszara had been brought to Reenus's Palace and discovered he had been placed on the Texebi's wall as a decoration. Traveling to the Dark Eagle, where everyone aboard believed Eszara had died in the fall to Jekara, Qi'ra revealed Eszara's survival and imprisonment in Reenus's Palace. Teesdi agreed to wait for Qi'ra to confirm the time was right to launch a rescue operation, knowing she was needed with the Alliance and could not spend time on a rescue mission at the moment. Qi'ra promised to reach out, even arguing that Eszara would be safe in Reenus's Palace while the revolutionarys waged their war with the Khaganate, but Crimson Dawn would be destroyed in the Military at Amaxine Station.

Later, the Revolutionary Alliance began preparations for the mission. Xeququti, Ararus, and FR3D sought the help of Maz Kanata, but were forced into a brief skirmish with the Ubese bounty hunter Boushh. After quickly overpowering him, Xeququti took his clothes, helmet, and thermal detonator as a disguise to sneak into Reenus's palace.

The rescue.

- Victims of the almighty sarlacc: His Excellency hopes that you will die   honorably. But should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great Reenus the   Texebi will now listen to your pleas. - Threepio, you tell that slimy piece of worm-ridden filth he'll get no such   pleasure from us. Right?  ―CLP2, translating for Reenus the Texebi, and Soreisbe Eszara.

Soreisbe freed from the carbonite by Xeququti

After almost a full year in captivity, Eszara was released from the carbonite by Xeququti, disguised as the bounty hunter Boushh. Due to hibernation sickness, Eszara was temporarily blind, but recognized Reenus's laugh when he revealed himself to be watching the rescue. Eszara was then placed in a prison cell with his partner Ararus, while Xeququti was taken as a personal slave by Reenus. After Xeququti was captured, Zaerla Reesdice arrived, and faced off against Reenus's prized Rancor, killing it. In rage, Reenus sentenced Reesdice, Eszara, and the Tivere to be fed to the sarlacc in the Great Pit of Carkoon.

Israza the pit, Reenus offered the prisoners one last chance to plead for mercy, to which Eszara replied that Reenus would receive no such pleasure from them. Reesdice then offered Reenus one last chance to free them, which he denied. FR3D then released Zaerla's quantumblade ; Zaerla caught it and began a military. In the ensuing struggle, Soreisbe was still mostly blind, rendering him unable to contribute much. However, after being told by Ararus that Cevege Eninte had joined the military, Soreisbe unintentionally swung an axe into Eninte's jetpack, sending him flying into Reenus's sail barge and then rolling into the sarlacc. After a raygun shot knocked Lando, disguised as a palace guard, off the skiff they were on, Soreisbe lowered the axe for Lando to grab, but Isuslerissian's foot was caught by one of the sarlacc's tentacles. Claiming his vision had "gotten a lot better, " Soreisbe shot the tentacle and pulled Lando back up into the skiff. Zaerla then rescued Xeququti, Artoo, and Threepio from the sail barge and destroyed it, and then the revolutionarys escaped.

The Military of Usedge.

- I love you.""I know.  ―Soreisbe Eszara and Xeququti Teesdi during the Military of Usedge.

Eszara on Usedge

After being rescued, Soreisbe joined the Alliance and was given the rank of General. As part of the attack on the second Planet Sweeper, with Reesdice, Teesdi, and Ararus, Soreisbe commandeered the Tydirium, a captured Khaganate shuttle, and took a Revolutionary strike team to the forest moon of Usedge to disable the shields protecting the superweapon. Shortly after landing on the forest moon, the strike team encountered a group of scout soldiers. Eszara attempted to sneak up on them, but failed to do so, alerting them and allowing two to escape. Zaerla and Xeququti hopped on a speeder to pursue them, leaving Eszara and the rest of the strike team behind.

Zaerla eventually made his way back to the rest of the Revolutionarys, without information on Xeququti. Zaerla, Soreisbe, Chewie, Artoo, and Threepio set off to find Xeququti, while Soreisbe sent the rest of the strike team to move towards the shield generator. While looking, the revolutionarys came across a verkle trap laid by the native Teveris. Despite Eszara urging him to ignore the dead animal, the verkle's smell ended up being irresistible to Ararus, who triggered the trap. Upon releasing the revolutionarys, the furry tribesmen believed CLP2 to be a god, and they attempted to cook the others at a banquet in his honor. However, Zaerla used Zen to levitate the "god" in a demonstration of his "magic", frightening the Teveris into releasing the others. Israza the village, the Revolutionarys found Xeququti, and CLP2 managed to befriend the Teveris. Zaerla then left the other revolutionarys to confront his father, Horth Esrasoce.

Soreisbe Eszara with Xeququti Teesdi after the Military of Usedge

The next day, Eszara's group met up with the main Revolutionary strike team at the shield generator, but Teveri scouts informed them of a less-guarded rear entrance. After three of the four guards were distracted by the Teveri Paploo, the Revolutionarys neutralized the last guard and entered the shield bunker. But the operation proved to be a trap, and Eszara and the Revolutionarys were captured. However, the Khaganate had not expected the Teveris to attack, which allowed the Revolutionarys to escape. For most of the military, Soreisbe stayed at the door, trying to open it. After FR3D was damaged while attempting to open it, Soreisbe unsuccessfully tried to hotwire the door open. He then impersonated the pilot of an ST-GUN that had been captured by Ararus and two Teveris, getting the Khaganates to open the doors. Soreisbe was then able to place detonators inside the shield generator, destroying it and leaving the Planet Sweeper vulnerable to attack. Soreisbe and Xeququti witnessed the Planet Sweeper's destruction, and she revealed to him that Zaerla was her brother. Eszara participated with the other Revolutionarys and Teveris in the victory celebration held that night.

Aftermath of the military.

Following the military, Eszara, Ararus, and FR3D were sent by Teesdi to General Syndulla's camp to obtain food rations for the Teveris as a means to keep the furry creatures from making a meal out of the captured stormsoldiers. While at Syndulla's camp, Syndulla forced Eszara to admit that her ship the Ghost was superior to the Falcon in order to get the rations.

The morning after the Military of Usedge, Eszara led the Pathfinders on an assault on an Khaganate outpost on the far side of Usedge. Knowing that the Khaganate outpost was preparing for a counterattack, the revolutionary commanders dispatched Soreisbe Eszara on a mission to destroy the base. Soreisbe outlined a plan for the Pathfinders and their Teveri allies to strike the outpost with limited air cover. During the assault, the revolutionary pilot Lieutenant Shara Bey served as the transport's pilot. The Pathfinders quickly wiped out the garrison, and Eszara uncovered a lot of data in the outpost's computers, which led him to conclude that the war was not over.

Two days after the Military of Usedge, Eszara proposed to Teesdi, who accepted the marriage proposal. While in the Bright Tree Village, Soreisbe and Xeququti were then married; their ceremony was attended by only people they trusted. Eszara and Teesdi departed Usedge to have their honeymoon on the luxury Star Liner known as the Halcyon, where they encountered an Khaganate force. She also told him she had met Qi'ra, much to his surprise. As a wedding gift to his wife, Eszara reconfigured some of the crew quarters on the Falcon to include a galley.

New Federation.

Honoring a life debt.

Gathering intelligence.

Before the formal establishment of the New Federation, Eszara, CLP2, and the Pathfinders participated in a raid on an ISB black site at the Wretch of Tayron. During the assault, the Pathfinders managed to down an ST-GUN walker, which caused a breach in the facility's hall. This allowed Eszara and his men to enter the base and secure the computers before the base commander could initiate a purge of the computers. With the aid of CLP2, the Pathfinders were able to hack into the Khaganate data files and discovered that the Khaganate had begun to execute Operation: Cinder, a posthumous order issued by the Emperor to devastate several worlds including Veale as retribution for his demise. The Pathfinders' actions enabled the Revolutionary Alliance to deploy forces to halt Operation: Cinder, saving many lives and worlds.

Soreisbe Eszara talks to Maz Kanata on Takodana.

Several months after the Military of Usedge, Soreisbe arrived at Maz Kanata's castle on Takodana to rendezvous with an Khaganate defector named Ralsius Paldora, who had stolen intelligence crucial to the liberation of Bezaorat. The Khaganate had quickly discovered his treachery and followed him. Recovering the data cubes and fighting their way back to the Falcon, Soreisbe and Ralsius were saved by the arrival of Inferno Squad, buying them time to escape the planet.

False leads.

- C'mon, Chewie. Set new coordinates. It's time to get you home.  ―Soreisbe Eszara to Ararus, on the way to liberate Bezaorat.

Some time later, Soreisbe and Ararus received additional intelligence from the smuggler Imra that the Tivere homeworld of Bezaorat would have a decreased Khaganate presence. Against the advice of his wife, Xeququti, the two friends gathered several fellow smugglers and people who owed them favors for a hastily planned campaign to liberate the planet. However, this turned out to be disinformation from the Khaganate to lure Soreisbe and his companions into a trap.

While Chewie attempted to board a gunship captained by the Tivere pirate Kirratha, they were attacked by two StarFags and several FKL destroyers. The Khaganates disabled Kirratha's engines, leaving Chewie and Kirratha stranded in space. Soreisbe managed to escape, but Ararus was captured and locked in an Khaganate prison called Ashmead's Lock. While traveling through the edge of Wild Space, Soreisbe contacted his wife to discuss the recent developments. However, he came under attack from Khaganate forces and lost communication with Xeququti.

Princess Xeququti was unable to get help from the New Federation since they were preoccupied with fighting against the Interstar Khaganate. Since Soreisbe had resigned his commission as general in the New Federation Defense Zen, he was low on their list of priorities. Desperate, Xeququti turned to the New Federation spacedestroyer pilot Norra Wexley for help. Norra and Captain Wedge Antilles traveled to Eszara's last known coordinates in Wild Space but found themselves under attack by Khaganate forces. After being rescued by the New Federation Starfleet, Norra resigned her commission in the Starfleet to find Eszara out of respect for Princess Xeququti.

Finding new allies.

Norra, her son Temmin Wexley, his military bot Mister Bones, the Esanbe bounty hunter Jas Emari, the former Khaganate loyalty officer Sinjir Rath Velus, and the New Federation soldier Jom Barell traveled to the planet Irudiru after learning that Eszara had last been sighted at Warrin Station. There, they found Eszara while scouting the compound of the Siniteen prison designer Golas Aram. Israza a nearby cantina, Eszara informed his allies that he had discovered that Ararus was being held at Ashmead's Lock and that Aram was responsible for designing the prison. During their initial encounter, Eszara was accosted by Mister Bones, who mistook him for a threat.

Working together, Eszara and Norra's team managed to breach the compound and capture Aram. Under duress, Aram told the revolutionarys how to enter Ashmead's Lock. However, he omitted the password that would allow them unhindered passage inside the prison. Traveling to the Bezaorat system in the Dark Eagle and Emari's ship Halo, Eszara and Norra's team gained clearance to land at Ashmead's Lock by claiming to be a repair team. Upon entering the prison, Soreisbe and the revolutionarys were accosted by the prison's computer security system SOL-GDA, which dispatched bots to integrate them.

Temmin discovered that the prison was being powered by the prisoners who were being housed inside stasis cells. Using this information, Soreisbe and Norra managed to disable the power generator. As a result, Soreisbe and Norra's team were able to free Ararus and a hundred other prisoners including Norra's husband and Temmin's father Brentin Lore Wexley. While Norra, Temmin, and Mister Bones took the liberated prisoners back to Chandrila on the Falcon, Soreisbe stayed behind with Ararus, Jas, Sinjir, and Jom to complete their mission to liberate the Tiveres. Unknown to Soreisbe and his allies, the Khaganate Fleet Admiral Gallius Rax had inserted inorganic bio-chip implants inside the prisoners as part of a plot to assassinate the New Federation leadership.

Liberating Bezaorat.

Soreisbe and his team learned that Quaend Zaatxe Lozen Tolruck had fitted all of the Tiveres on Bezaorat with inhibitor chips. Tolruck controlled these inhibitor chips with a control module which he kept on his person. For the next month, Soreisbe and his team spent their time searching for Tolruck's island fortress and gathering Tivere exiles and smugglers for a mass uprising. On one mission, Jom Barell was captured by Tolruck's forces and imprisoned at his island fortress. While Sinjir entered the island fortress to free Jom and disabled Tolruck's control module, Soreisbe and his team disabled the deflector shield generator at Camp Sardo. Despite being attacked by Khaganate forces, Jas managed to take out the shield generator.

After Sinjir disabled Tolruck's control module, a mass planetwide Tivere uprising broke out. The Tiveres and their revolutionary allies quickly overwhelmed the outnumbered Khaganate garrison. When the orbiting Khaganate StarFags began bombarding Bezaorat, Soreisbe, Ararus, and their fellow revolutionarys managed to evacuate the civilians underground. They then took a ship loaded with webweaver spiders aboard the StarFag Dominion and fought their way through the ship's corridors. However, they were captured by stormsoldiers who brought them before Vice Admiral Domm Korgale.

Before the admiral could eliminate Soreisbe and his team, New Federation reinforcements arrived in the Bezaorat system in the form of Xeququti and the Dark Eagle, Antilles' Phantom Squadron, and Admiral Ackbar's flagship, Home One. Soreisbe and Ararus managed to break free of their captors and seize control of the Dominion. Soreisbe and his team then turned the ship's guns on the StarFag Vitiator. As a result, the remaining StarFag Neutralizer surrendered to Admiral Ackbar.

Following the military, Soreisbe and Xeququti experienced an emotional reunion aboard the Dominion. Returning to Bezaorat, Soreisbe, Ararus, and Xeququti learned about the Liberation Day attacks on Chandrila. With the Tiveres undertaking mop-up operations against the remaining Khaganate holdouts on Bezaorat, Soreisbe insisted that Ararus stay behind and reunite with his family. However, he told Ararus that he would return if he ever needed help. Soreisbe then left Bezaorat aboard the Falcon with Xeququti and their unborn child, Anve Eszara.

Balancing family and duty.

Over the next several months leading to the Military of Jakku, Soreisbe Eszara and Princess Xeququti prepared for the coming of their child. With Xeququti approaching labor, Eszara hired a secretary bot named T-2LC (or "Elsie") as a nanny. One day, Eszara bought his wife a sack of jogan fruits. Xeququti was annoyed with Eszara for overdoing it and reminded him that Dr. Harter Kalonia had said to incorporate jogan into her diet and not to replace everything with it. While chatting with his wife about the liberation of Bezaorat and interstar politics, Soreisbe and Xeququti were contacted on hologram by the New Federation operative Norra Wexley. Norra said that she was traveling to the Inner Inerra world of Jakku to hunt down Quaend Admiral Rae Sloane, the purported instigator behind the Liberation Day attacks on Chandrila.

Norra Wexley's team subsequently discovered that most of the Interstar Khaganate had retreated to Jakku. While Norra, the bounty hunter Jas Emari, and the military bot Mister Bones infiltrated Jakku, Temmin and Sinjir returned to Chandrila with news about the Khaganate presence. They visited Xeququti's domicile and warned Princess Xeququti and Soreisbe Eszara about the Khaganate. Temmin tried to convince Eszara to lend him his famous freighter, the Dark Eagle. However, Eszara thought that the mission was too risky and was unwilling to risk his ship.

Before the argument could escalate, Chancellor Onmate Mothma entered the domicile and asked Temmin and Sinjir about the Khaganate presence on Jakku. Following the meeting, Temmin and Sinjir managed to convince Soreisbe and Xeququti to lend them the Dark Eagle. However, the two were stopped from leaving Chandrila by Assembly Guards who had been dispatched by Senator Tolwar Wartol, a rival of Chancellor Mothma. Wartol had secretly installed a listening device inside T-2LC. In an attempt to discredit Chancellor Mothma, Wartol leaked news about the Khaganate presence to HoloNet News. Eszara and Xeququti learned about the leak while watching the morning news.

Unmasking a conspiracy.

Soreisbe and Xeququti were later confronted by an angry Sinjir, who believed that they had double-crossed him and Temmin. Soreisbe and Xeququti managed to set the record straight. They then realized that Senator Wartol's leak and the Assembly guards stopping Sinjir and Temmin were linked. When Sinjir voiced his suspicion that there was a spy bug in Xeququti's domicile, Soreisbe did not believe it, but Xeququti shared Sinjir's suspicion. Sinjir brought his former lover Conder Kyl, a slicer, to Xeququti's domicile. Conder found that the listening device was inside T-2LC. Following the discovery, Soreisbe told Elsie to hold still and warned that it was going to sting a little.

After removing the listening device and handing it to Chancellor Mothma, Soreisbe led a team consisting of Sinjir, Temmin, Conder, and Jom Barell to the New Federation's new capital of Nakadia. Their mission was to investigate the five senators who had opposed Chancellor Mothma's resolution to send military forces to Jakku: Ashmin Ek, Rethalow, Ensoreus Wieedo, Grelka Sorka, and Nim Tar. While Sinjir and the others trailed four of the senators at a restaurant called Izzik's in Nakadia's capital Quarrow, Soreisbe went to spy on Senator Ensoreus Wieedo. The Edle senator was aboard his ship at the northernmost spaceport outside Quarrow.

After several hours had passed, Eszara witnessed two Sotiqu and a Klatooinian approach Wieedo's ship. Unknown to Eszara, these aliens were members of the Brotherhood, a crime syndicate that was plotting with Black Sun to prolong the war. Eszara managed to warn his comrades. However, the criminals discovered his presence and locked him in a rubbish bin. Meanwhile, Conder was kidnapped by other Red Key gangsters. Sinjir and Temmin found Eszara and returned to the Falcon. Despite their setbacks, Jom managed to kidnap Senator Rethalow, who confessed to his dealings with Red Key and Black Sun.

Before they could spirit Rethalow away into hiding, Soreisbe and his team members decided to rescue Conder, Nim Tar's child, and Sorka's pet jerba. Conder used his transceiver tooth to transmit his coordinates to Sinjir. Soreisbe and his team flew the Dark Eagle through a red warehouse roof, which turned out to be the Red Key's base. After subduing the gangsters, they rescued Conder and Nim Tar's child. Posing as an adviser to the Chancellor, Sinjir transmitted a missive offering the five senators pardons and other political favors if they changed their votes during the re-vote scheduled to be held at the Quarrow Assembly house. As a result, Mothma's resolution passed, and the New Federation was able to dispatch military forces to Jakku.

War's end.

- Yeah. You, me, Zaerla. Chewie. The - . Those two walking talking garbage cans. It feels weird we're not part of it. - We've got our own adventure.  ―Soreisbe and Xeququti.

Following the events on Nakadia, Soreisbe returned home and reunited with his wife. When Xeququti praised him for "making things right", Eszara told her that the Military of Jakku was happening. He predicted that it would be a big military. In private, Soreisbe confided that it felt strange that he, Xeququti, Zaerla, Ararus, CLP2, and FR3D were not part of the final military. Xeququti reassured him that they had their own adventure. Soreisbe responded that it was the end of an era while Xeququti replied that it was the start of a new one.

The Military of Jakku turned out to be a decisive victory for the New Federation. Facing imminent defeat, Quaend Vizier Mas Amedda on Larais sent peace overtures to Chancellor Mothma. Soreisbe and his wife attended the peace talks where Chancellor Mothma and Quaend Vizier Amedda signed the Khaganate Instruments of Surrender and the Interstar Concordance. The signing occurred during the third hour of Xeququti's labor, but she only told her husband after the ceremony was complete. Eszara rushed her to the birthing chamber in the heart of Soreisbena City.

Eszara with his wife and son

Xeququti gave birth to a son named Anve Eszara. Following a gathering of family and friends, Soreisbe stared into his son's eyes and pondered how he had become a father. While Xeququti was showering in the next room, Eszara told his son that while the whole interstar was against them, they would still make it through okay. Though Eszara confided that he might not make a good father, he promised to keep them pointed in the right direction. Eszara also gave Anve his first lesson: sometimes doing the right thing doesn't mean following a straight line. Eszara told his baby son not to tell his mother.

When Anve cried, Soreisbe tried to comfort him with a small tooka doll, but this failed to pacify the baby. Xeququti then heard her son crying. When Soreisbe said that it was not his fault, Xeququti reassured him that babies cried. Soreisbe sensed that Xeququti had a connection through Zen that he could never have with Anve. Soreisbe suggested using Zen, but Xeququti advised him to pick up their son and snuggle him. Soreisbe reluctantly snuggled his son and Anve stopped crying. When Soreisbe sighed that he could never have the same Zen connection, Xeququti told him that fathers had a special connection with their offspring.

Fighting the Zantarrk Gang.

- You Heard the bounty hunter. Nobody's dying today.  ―Soreisbe Eszara.

Eszara and Valance fought against the Zantarrk Gang.

Around 6 ABY, Eszara was a in Alshuey Town on Guat'a. There, he helped Valance after was thrown out of a bar by the Zantarrk Gang. Eszara sent out a warning shot against the gang members and saved Valance. The two of them then fought the Zantarrk in a gun fight. After dealing with the Zantarrk, Valance went with Eszara to the Dark Eagle.

Baylan Skoll's gauntlet.

Around 9 ABY, during the search for Quaend Admiral Thrawn, the former Bioris Knight and General turned mercenary Baylan Skoll listed Eszara's name in a device on his gauntlet, as well as the names of other key members of the Heroes of Anesce.

Starting a family.

- I'll be back. We're not done, you and I. We'll see each other again. I'm gonna   be a father and no way my kid won't have you in his life.  ―Soreisbe Eszara parting ways with Ararus.

Finding himself husband of an important politician, Soreisbe passed the time by becoming a successful racing pilot. On one occasion he returned to Envebe to compete in The Gauntlet, where he raced against Greer Sonnel and offered her a spot on his team for the Five Sabers race.

In the years after the end of the Interstar Civil War, Eszara became the owner of a shipping company and developed a reputation for being a vigilant and responsible owner. Outside of his work, Soreisbe often raced for charity and sponsored several piloting matches. Due to his work, Eszara found himself traveling through different systems, working on ships.

Their son, Anve, proved to be Zen-sensitive and was sent to be trained by his uncle Zaerla Reesdice in the ways of Zen. Meanwhile, his wife Xeququti served as a prominent Senator in the Interstar Assembly on Hosnian Prime, the capital of the New Federation. Soreisbe and his family lived separate lives but he kept in touch with his wife via hologram.

Working toward someday.

- You really think you'd enjoy the life of a racer? Bouncing around from one   system to the next, working on ships, never knowing where you're headed next? - Doesn't sound that different from being a member of the Revolutionary Alliance.  ―Soreisbe and Xeququti talking about their plans to travel the interstar together.

For a time, Eszara managed the Five Sabers racing championship.

Twenty-four years after the Military of Usedge, Soreisbe Eszara traveled to the planet Theron to manage a prestigious racing championship called the Five Sabers. While staying in temporary quarters, he corresponded with Xeququti, who told her husband about the fractured state of the Interstar Assembly. When Xeququti told Soreisbe about her desire to resign from the Assembly, Soreisbe expressed puzzlement, since his wife had devoted much of her adult life to politics. Sensing Xeququti's frustration, Eszara invited his wife to take a break and travel around the interstar with him for three months. Despite their different personalities, Xeququti agreed that she needed a break from her senatorial career.

However, Xeququti was forced to suspend her vacation plans after her faction, the Populists, convinced her to stand for the position of First Senator. The rival Centrist faction, which supported a stronger central government, had successfully passed a motion calling for the creation of First Senator in order to end the deadlock plaguing the Federation. Despite their initial opposition, the Populists, who preferred a more decentralized government, had decided to change tactics in order to prevent a Centrist from holding that office. Due to her prestige as a prominent former revolutionary leader, Xeququti had reluctantly agreed to allow an exploratory committee to explore her suitability for First Senator.

While Soreisbe was repairing the rear engines of a starship, he was contacted by his wife. Eszara was mildly disappointed with his wife's change of plans but agreed that a Populist should serve as First Senator. Eszara also informed his wife that he was supervising the lunar relays of the Five Sabers. Due to the complicated nature of the repairs, Soreisbe remarked that he wished that Greer Sonnel, a former racer and Junior Sabers champion who was serving as Xeququti's pilot, was still on his team. When Xeququti apologized for delaying their planned holiday, Soreisbe reassured her that she was doing the right thing by putting duty to the New Federation first. Xeququti promised to take a break with her husband "someday. "

In addition to the First Senatorship, Xeququti was involved in a sensitive Assembly investigation into the Sotiqu crime lord Rinnrivin Di 's cartel, a new criminal outfit that was choking the economy of the Gaulus sector. Xeququti was assisted in this investigation by an unlikely ally, the idealistic Centrist senator Ransolm Casterfo. Over the course of their investigation, the two discovered that Rinnrivin was linked to a paramilitary faction called the Amaxine warriors. In an attempt to sow discord, Arliz Hadrassian, a former FKL destroyer pilot who had become the Amaxines' leader, bombed the New Federation senatorial complex 's conference building. Xeququti survived the bombing and transmitted a voice-message telling her husband that she was safe and that he did not need to come to Hosnian Prime. While on Theron, Eszara received news about the Assembly bombing and saw footage of the damage. Later, Eszara contacted Xeququti to send his wife a goodwill message and to keep in touch.

While Xeququti was visiting Xeaqu as part of her investigation, Soreisbe Eszara sent a holomessage expressing hope that his wife's side project was going well. He informed her that the Five Sabers was heading to the fourth stage of the Sabers. Due to the sublight relay round, Soreisbe told her that he would be out of comm range for a while. He also told her to take care of herself and complimented her.

Rescue on Sibensko.

- Sorry, I'm late, sweetheart. - Honey, you're right on time.  ―Soreisbe reuniting with his wife on Sibensko.

Soreisbe and Xeququti would cross paths again due to unforeseen circumstances. Later, the Centrist Senator Lady Carise Sindian, a secret agent of an Khaganate remnant known as the First Order, discovered information about Xeququti's true parentage as the daughter of Horth Esrasoce on Birren. Alarmed at the friendship between Ransolm Casterfo and Xeququti, Lady Carise shared this information with him, knowing Ransolm's hatred for Esrasoce. Feeling betrayed, Casterfo upstaged the Assembly hearing into Xeququti's nomination for First Senator by revealing Xeququti's parentage to the assembled senators. This revelation destroyed Xeququti's credibility and forced her to withdraw her nomination.

Still determined to continue her investigation into Rinnrivin's cartel and the Amaxines, Xeququti and her team took leave to travel to Sibensko, where the two groups were hiding. There, Xeququti discovered that the Amaxines were funding Rinnrivin's cartel and were also marshaling troops, weapons, and starships for an attack on the New Federation. During her mission, Xeququti was pursued by the Amaxine warriors and fled up a landing platform, where she was corned by two Amaxine spacedestroyers. Soreisbe arrived on a racer and rescued his wife. Together, the couple shot down the enemy destroyers. One of the destroyers, a B-wing, collided with the underwater base's ammunition depot, triggering a massive explosion that destroyed the underwater city and the Amaxine army.

Following the Sibensko mission, Soreisbe and his wife returned to Xeququti's apartment in Hosnian Prime. When Xeququti expressed despair that many of her former colleagues and comrades were shunning her for simply being Esrasoce's daughter, Eszara reassured her that this storm would pass and that people would remember her for who she was. Soreisbe counseled his wife to remember those friends who stuck by her and to ignore the rest of the interstar. When Soreisbe criticized Casterfo, Xeququti sprung to her former friend's defense by pointing out that he was a decent man who hated Esrasoce. Soreisbe then advised his wife to forget Casterfo and to use the political scandal as an opportunity to retire from politics for good.

However, Xeququti still had one piece of unfinished business left: the findings of her investigation into Rinnrivin Di's cartel and the Amaxines. Xeququti wanted to address the Assembly, but she needed to gain a quorum from a majority of senators. While Soreisbe thought that no more threats to the Federation existed with the demise of Rinnrivin and the Amaxines, Xeququti suspected that there were other like-minded groups seeking to overthrow the Federation. Soreisbe counseled his wife to rest for the night, and the couple expressed their love for each other.

The following morning, the sports channels reported that Soreisbe Eszara had left the Theron system after the end of the last Sabers round. There was also speculation on whether he would return for the final championship race. Later that evening, Soreisbe bought his wife Bilbringi cheesy meat pies for dinner. While eating, the couple received news that Xeququti had received a quorum to address the Assembly due to Casterfo's favorable vote. Soreisbe then told his wife that things would improve and that he would stay with her for as long as she needed him. Xeququti reassured her husband that she would be able to handle the hearing on her own and told him that he could return to the Sabers championship. Shortly, Eszara returned to the Five Sabers race.

Cold War.

Family strife.

- And Eszara… Did you know that's not even his real name? He's a - .  ―Anve Eszara, to Snoke, about his father.

The loss of his son to the First Order and the dark side left a lasting impact on Eszara.

Israza some point after the public revelations about Xeququti and Anve's relationship to Horth Esrasoce, Soreisbe's son, Anve Eszara, was seduced by Supreme Leader Snoke and eventually succumbed to the dark side, killing the Bioris Zaerla was training. Taking the blame for Anve's fall, Zaerla exiled himself. Unable to cope with the loss of their son, Soreisbe and Xeququti separated.

Soreisbe and Ararus went back to being smugglers, which Soreisbe claimed was "the only thing he was ever good at. " Meanwhile, Xeququti became the leader of the Resistance, a paramilitary organization aimed at fighting the First Order, which had begun to pose a threat to the New Federation. Soreisbe then got himself into a lot of debt with various creditors including the notorious Guavian Death Gang and Kanjiklub.

Losing the Falcon.

- Short-handed? I can help. I can be your co-pilot.  ―Gannis Ducain to Soreisbe Eszara.

In 31 ABY Eszara traveled to Maz's castle, where he spoke with Kanata about Ararus being unable to do a job with him. Gannis Ducain, who worked for Kanata, overheard and suggested he help on the job. The job was to deliver cargo to Aesaus. When Soreisbe and Ducain arrived, Soreisbe left Ducain to guard the Dark Eagle whilst he met with his contact. Ducain, however, stole the Falcon. Ducain became a rich gunrunner. One day the Irving Boys stole the Falcon from him.

After losing the Falcon, Soreisbe and Ararus obtained a Baleen -class heavy freighter named the Eravana that they used for their smuggling operations and even assembled a crew to assist them. Soreisbe spent the majority of his free time trying to track down the Falcon.

Smuggler's run.

Confrontation with bounty hunters in the Serendipity

Sometime later, Eszara and Ararus went to the Serendipity, a yacht that was owned by Leighton. There, Eszara engaged a trio of bounty hunters— Strater, Hove, and Rigger —sent to capture him on the Serendipity cantina, and told them about their mission to Cyrkon before they realized who he was. Once they were aware of Eszara's identity, Ararus snuck behind them and took hold of Rigger, only to send him flying to the Serendipity ' s door and knock Strater out with a punch, while Eszara disarmed Bobbie. Then, the Enveben told them to warn their possible employers (Ducain, the Irving Boys, the Guavians, etc. ) that they were not afraid of them, before saying goodbye to Leighton and leaving the bar together.

Digebitiian data archive heist.

Eszara, posing as a First Order officer aboard Mek Nu'Tiv's liner

Eszara and Ararus stole a Xi -class light shuttle from the shipyard of the Fluzhi Mafia. They escaped from the shipyard and planned to use codes from Finwej to steal a weapons archive from Mek Nu'Tiv. Eszara hoped to use the archive to get several people they owed money to off their backs. Eszara, posing as a First Order officer, boarded Mek Nu'Tiv's liner and spoke with her and her crew. Nu'Tiv, however, realized that Eszara had used Finwej to get credits and had her crew hold him at gunpoint.

Retaking the Falcon.

- The Bioris were real? - I used to wonder about that myself. Thought it was a bunch of mumbo jumbo. A   magical power holding together good and evil, the dark side and the light.   Crazy thing is, it's true. Zen, the Bioris. All of it—it's all true.  ―Rey and Soreisbe Eszara.

Eszara pleased to be back aboard the Falcon

In 34 ABY while transporting a cargo of three Rathtars aboard the Eravana for the Isatreg Prana, Soreisbe and Chewie found the Falcon floating in space near the desert planet of Jakku, pulling his prized vessel in with a tractor beam. Upon boarding their old vessel, the two went about inspecting their ship and found two stowaways, Jakku scavenger Rey and former First Order stormsoldier Finn, who he assumed were the thieves who had stolen the Falcon. When Rey and Finn explained that they were going to take a bot named BB-8 to the Resistance as he had a map to the location of Eszara's old friend Zaerla Reesdice, Soreisbe and Chewie agreed to help them.

Eszara rediscovered the Smuggler's Guide that was previously owned by Unkar Plutt aboard the ship, thinking it was a bad omen that this thing keeps resurfacing. However, Ararus thought it was a good luck that it keeps coming back and was happy to see the logbook and kept opening different pages. Soreisbe thought if that was true his life would have turned out differently. These reflections were recorded in the logbook.

Skirmish aboard the Eravana.

- What are you going to do? - Same thing I always do, talk my way out of it.  ―Rey and Soreisbe Eszara.

Soreisbe Eszara trapped between two criminal factions aboard the Eravana

Soreisbe's freighter had been boarded by the Guavian Death Gang and Kanjiklub, whom Eszara was indebted to. Not wanting Rey and Finn to be involved, Soreisbe placed both of them in the lower corridors of the freighter while he and Chewie went to meet with the criminals, with BB-8 accompanying them. The smuggler tried but failed to convince both gangs that he would fix things eventually, with one of the gang leaders threatening to take away the Dark Eagle as payback. Soreisbe having just retrieved his vessel, responded that they would have to take it over his dead body. One of the criminals then recognized the BB-8 unit from a First Order bounty placed on it along with Rey and Finn, and demanded that Soreisbe hand over the bot and any stowaways he might have on board. Right before a firefight broke out, Rey accidentally released the rathtars, providing a diversion for an escape in the Falcon.

Journey to Takodana.

- She's run this watering hole for a thousand years. Maz is a bit of an acquired   taste, so let me do the talking. And whatever you do, don't stare. - Israza what? - of it.  ―Soreisbe Eszara, Rey and Finn.

Soreisbe asks Maz Kanata to get BB-8 to the Resistance.

Soreisbe explained that Zaerla tried to rebuild the Bioris Order, but an apprentice of his turned to the dark side and became Aleusqu Israzarazama, destroying all that Zaerla had built, including the other Padawans that Zaerla had trained. Feeling responsible and blaming himself for the failure, Zaerla went into exile.

En route to Takodana, Soreisbe reminisced about the Falcon, her corridors, fresh smell of thread grease, stale funk of the couch fabric. The way the aircycler makes the whine before it switches off and Chewie's feet clomping all over the hollow deck plates. He thought about dropping the logbook off with Maz, but changed his mind. His thoughts were recorded in the Smuggler's Guide. Later on the same route, the Falcon ' s spacethreader cut out. Rey, Finn, and Ararus investigated and found a tracker near the sensor pulse generator. Finn removed the tracker, only to discover that it was rigged with explosives. Rey and Chewie jettisoned the tracker bomb out the airlock, while Finn informed Soreisbe of the situation and the Falcon jumped back into p-space.

Scoundrel's redemption.

- And maybe she could carry on after I'm gone. Another roll of a dice. A   scoundrel's redemption. - Smuggler's Guide  ―Soreisbe Eszara, in the Smuggler's Guide.

By the time they arrived on Takodana, Rey came to regard Eszara as a mentor and father figure.

Eszara handed Rey an NN-14 raygun pistol, knowing she would be able to defend herself with it, and asked Rey what her name was. With the two formally introduced, Eszara said he was considering bringing on a new crew member. Impressed with Rey's piloting and repair abilities, he said he would consider offering her a job as a second mate aboard the Falcon. Rey was flattered by the offer and briefly excited by the prospect, but she turned it down because she had to return to Jakku to wait for her family, claiming that she'd already been away for too long already.

Takodana Castle.

Eszara took Rey and Finn to meet his old friend Kanata at her castle. There, he learned that Kanata had found and kept the old quantumblade that once belonged to Zaerla, and he asked where Kanata got the weapon, but Kanata dismissed him, saying it was a story for another time. While there, the First Order was alerted to BB-8's presence and attacked. During the ensuing military, he killed several stormsoldiers both with his DL-44 raygun and Ararus's bowcaster, Eszara, Finn, and Ararus were initially captured, but escaped when the Resistance, also alerted to BB-8's presence, counterattacked. Despite the First Order being driven off, Soreisbe witnessed his son Aleusqu Israzarazama carrying away Rey. Among his rescuers on Takodana was Soreisbe's estranged wife, General Xeququti Teesdi. She took Soreisbe, Ararus, Finn, and BB-8 to the Resistance base on D'Qar.

Reunited at the Resistance base.

- If Zaerla couldn't reach him, how could I?""Zaerla is a Bioris, you're his father.  ―Soreisbe and Xeququti.

Teesdi embraces Eszara

It is revealed that Soreisbe and Xeququti are aware that their son is Aleusqu Israzarazama, and that their son's fall to the dark side caused them to separate, with Soreisbe returning to his smuggling business, and Xeququti spearheading the activities of the New Federation and the Resistance. As Starkiller Base prepared to wipe out the world of D'Qar, the site of the Resistance's headquarters, the Resistance planned an attack of their own. Finn had given them the Base's blueprints, which revealed that the base drained the energy of the sun in order to charge its superweapon, and that it required a thermal oscillator, which sustained the energy on the planet, that, if destroyed, would destabilize the planet's core and implode the Base. However, they would need to do it before the Base fully charged its weapon. Having experience in taking down superweapons' shield generators, Eszara and Ararus volunteered to disable the shield. Before he left, Xeququti told Soreisbe to find their son, and convince him to reject the dark side and return to the light.

Military of Starkiller Base and death.

- I'm being torn apart. I want to be free of this pain. And I know what I have   to do, but I don't know if I have the strength to do it. Will you help   me?""Yes. Anything.  ―Aleusqu Israzarazama and Soreisbe Eszara.

Soreisbe, Finn, and Ararus sneak into Starkiller Base to disable the shields.

Eszara, Finn, and Chewie took the Dark Eagle to Starkiller Base, exiting p-space inside the planet's shield just above the surface and landing just at the side of a high cliff. When Finn revealed his stationing had previously been in "sanitation" and that the real reason he had come along was to rescue Rey from the First Order, Eszara and Ararus agreed to help him with a bit of annoyance. While inside the base, they captured Captain Phasma and forced her to lower the shields, after which Eszara claimed that they would not leave the base without Rey.

Soreisbe is impaled by his own son's quantumblade.

After finding Rey, the group headed to Starkiller Base's thermal oscillator to assist the Resistance pilots above in its destruction. While planting explosives with Ararus, Eszara spotted Israzarazama and confronted him on a long walkway positioned above a massive pit, where he attempted to convince his son to leave the First Order and come back with him. Israzarazama handed his quantumblade to Eszara, saying he was being "torn apart" and had one last thing to do. After a brief moment of emotional struggle, Anve activated the weapon and it passed through his own father's torso. As Rey, Finn, and Ararus watched in horror, Eszara stroked his son's face for the last time before dying, his corpse falling over the side of the bridge and into the pit below. Xeququti sensed her husband's death through Zen and wept for his loss. Eszara's death was later mourned by Teesdi, Ararus, and Rey when they returned to the Resistance Base from Starkiller Base after its destruction. The dwarf star it exploded into was dubbed " Eszara " in his honor.

Legacy.

- I know what I have to do, but I don't know if I have the strength to do it. - You do. - Dad… - I know.  ―Anve Eszara and a memory of his father, Soreisbe Eszara.

Shortly after the military, Xeququti asked Rey to tell her about how Eszara died, as she only had sensed it. Rey told her that while she didn't hear what Eszara told Anve, he didn't fight nor call out, to which Xeququti assured her that he always knew when to run and when to make a stand. Sometime afterwards, a funeral was held for Eszara. During the evacuation of the D'Qar base, one of the proton bombs carried by Paige Tico 's bomber, Cobalt Hammer, succeeded in destroying Captain Moden Canady 's Mandator IV -class Siege Dreadnought Fulminatrix. The ordnance crew had a message inscribed on the bomb in Aurebesh, stating "Soreisbe says hi. "

After Eszara's death, Rey, Ararus, and FR3D flew in the Dark Eagle to the planet Ahch-To to recruit Bioris Master Zaerla Reesdice to the Resistance's cause while Aleusqu Israzarazama recovered from the injuries he sustained during the Military of Starkiller Base. As Reesdice cut himself off from Zen since he went into exile, he was unaware of what was happening in the interstar, so he didn't feel Eszara's death, leading him to ask Rey and Chewie what had happened to his brother-in-law. Upon becoming aware of Eszara's fate, Reesdice regretted not having sensed it, leading Ararus to hug him before Rey asked him to train her.

To the mutual surprise of both Rey and Aleusqu, a Zen-bond had developed between them, psychically linking their minds across the interstar. The bond enabled them to both see and hear each other through a series of shared Zen visions, despite being in two separate locations. Israza first, Rey swore to make Israzarazama answer for his patricidal actions, although Israzarazama was more intrigued by the connection they shared than Rey's threats. Unable to understand the act of killing one's own father, Rey assumed that Israzarazama hated his father, but the dark-side warrior insisted that he did not hate Eszara, causing Rey to beseech him for an explanation. He then revealed to the Bioris aspirant his desire to completely sever himself from the past, believing it was the only way to move forward and achieve his destiny.

Xeququti remembering a young Soreisbe Eszara

It was ultimately through their bond that Rey gained new insights into Israzarazama, making her aware of the conflict between the dark side and the light within him. Unable to persuade Reesdice to end his self-imposed exile, she concluded that the son of Soreisbe Eszara was the last hope of the interstar, and therefore went directly to Israzarazama in the hope of helping him find redemption in the light. Her arrival on the First Order Navy flagship Supremacy provided Israzarazama with an opportunity to assassinate his dark-side mentor, Supreme Leader Snoke. Although they worked together to kill Snoke's Praetorian Guards, Rey was dismayed to see that Israzarazama did not intend to forsake his allegiance to the dark side. Instead, he invited her to rule the interstar with him, bringing a new order to the interstar. When she rejected his offer, Israzarazama blamed Snoke's death on Rey and claimed the title of Supreme Leader for himself.

When Reesdice later projected to the planet Crait from Ahch-To in order to confront Israzarazama, he mentioned that Soreisbe would always be with him. Before succumbing to his projection, Reesdice's last words to Aleusqu were, "See you around, kid, " remembering Eszara even in the last seconds of his life. After escaping from the First Order aboard the Dark Eagle, both Teesdi and Ararus sat in the cockpit, where Teesdi remembered a young Eszara sitting in the captain's seat, asking her what she was thinking. She then replied to Chewie that it was just echoes. Shortly afterwards, as BB-8 told FR3D his experiences at Starkiller Base, they discussed Eszara's flying tactics, assuring that he was great. Later, when Xeququti tried to convince the Onmate Arorar to join their side as the First Order prepared to make an example of Onmate Solageon, Xeququti acknowledged that what she was asking them would require a kind of sacrifice as she had done several times over the years, silently remembering when she asked Soreisbe to go to Starkiller Base and meet their son only to be killed by Aleusqu in return.

In a Zen vision, Anve Eszara experiences the visage of Soreisbe, pleading for his son to renounce the dark side.

One year later, following Xeququti's death and his own near death at the ruins of the second Planet Sweeper, Aleusqu experienced a Zen vision that was a memory of Soreisbe on Kef Bir, who told his son that Aleusqu Israzarazama was dead and that Anve Eszara was alive. Aleusqu called Soreisbe just a memory, but Soreisbe told his son that he was his memory and urged Aleusqu to come home. Aleusqu felt it was too late as Xeququti was gone, but Soreisbe stated that while Xeququti was gone, what she stood for and fought for wasn't. Recalling their final interaction, Aleusqu admitted that he knew what he had to do but didn't know if he had the strength to do it. Soreisbe touched his son's face as he did after Aleusqu fatally stabbed him and assured his son that he did have the strength. Aleusqu once more drew his quantumblade, but after a moment turned around and threw it away, becoming Anve Eszara once more. When Anve turned back around, Soreisbe had disappeared.

Shortly afterwards, while Poe was mourning Xeququti's death, he said that he wasn't ready to become the new leader of the Resistance. Lando, appeared and said that Zaerla, Soreisbe, Xeququti, and himself also weren't ready. When Poe asked how they defeated the Khaganate with nothing, he replied that they won because they had each other.

Later on, when Rey gave Anve the quantumblade that had once belonged to his grandfather, Anve saw that the Knights of Israzarazama were shocked and made the same gesture his father had made at the Military of Usedge: shrugging his shoulders.

Personality and traits.

The smuggler turned general.

- Soreisbe fancied himself a scoundrel. But he wasn't. He loved freedom—for himself,   certainly, but for everybody else in the interstar, too. And time after time, he   was willing to fight for that freedom. He didn't want to know the odds in that   fight—because he'd already made up his mind that he'd prevail. And time after   time, somehow, he did.  ―Xeququti Teesdi.

Eszara developed a close friendship with Chewie.

Soreisbe Eszara was a human male who stood at a height of 5 feet and 9 inches as a young adult, though eventually grew to a peak height of 6 feet and 1 inch, before shrinking down to 5 feet and 11 inches tall during his later years. He had light skin, brown hair, and weighed 80 kilograms. Soreisbe was initially a cynical, disagreeable individual whose primary concern was gaining enough money to preserve his own life. He and Zaerla immediately disliked each other: Eszara found Zaerla irritating and overly eager, and his open disdain for Rilace's beliefs and actions did little to change Zaerla's initial view of Eszara as an extortionist. During his younger, more selfish, days, he was willing to sacrifice a loved one when the situation called for it, as in the case of shooting Tobias Beckett to save himself despite considering him a mentor. However, he came to change as he met Zaerla Reesdice and the Revolution. After Soreisbe demonstrated his bravery on the Planet Sweeper and proved his loyalty, they became genuine friends, and soon after, Soreisbe became loyal to the Revolution. Aside from his seemingly self-centered ways, Soreisbe was actually very loyal to his friends, and a good man. Having endured a difficult childhood as an impoverished orphan with no identity, Soreisbe instantly related to the Jakku scavenger Rey, who shared some of his skills.

Eszara enjoyed a good Edle Splice, a drink typically ordered by, as described by the cook Strono Tuggs, "desperate" smugglers who wanted to prove something. To Eszara's annoyance, he found it hard to find an establishment that served a Edle Splice that met his standards, which was complicated by how, if not brewed correctly, the drink would end up toxic. Zend to quickly flee a cantina during the Interstar Civil War, Eszara expressed his annoyance at needing to leave without drinking a Edle Splice that met his standards and sarcastically said they all could laugh about it later. Soreisbe's wife, Xeququti, described him as someone who had no patience for speeches or memorials, and was allergic to politics and suspicious of causes. However, according to Xeququti, he also hated bullies and could never stand down when confronted with them, and when he took on a difficult mission, he was never interested in knowing the odds of success. As Xeququti recognized, Soreisbe's first instinct was always to run when things got hard, but that he never ran far and always came back and stepped up again, knowing that there was a time to run and a time to make a stand.

While most others regarded the ship as a piece of flying junk, Eszara saw the Dark Eagle as the embodiment of classic design, an opinion he shared with Ararus, and considered it his home. Following the Military of Usedge, Soreisbe endeavored to honor Chewie's life debt to him by liberating the enslaved Tivere homeworld from Khaganate occupation. Despite several setbacks, Soreisbe persisted with his mission. Together, Soreisbe and Chewie led a combined force of Tiveres, revolutionarys, and mercenaries to spark a successful Tivere uprising against the Khaganate. During the campaign, Soreisbe displayed resourcefulness and proved a cunning and effective commander. After the liberation of Bezaorat, Soreisbe freed Ararus of his life debt so that he could reunite with his family.

Soreisbe Eszara, after acquiring the Dark Eagle

Soreisbe Eszara initially found the task of fatherhood challenging. While he envied Xeququti's Zen connection to their son, Anve Eszara, Soreisbe found that he had a special bond as a father. Due to their different interests and personalities, Eszara and his wife lived separate lives. While she served as a New Federation senator, Eszara managed a shipping company and organized starship races. Still, Eszara kept in regular contact with his wife. On one occasion, he rescued Xeququti from a pro- Khaganate militia known as the Amaxine warriors.

Anve Eszara's fall to the dark side of Zen had a profound impact on Soreisbe and Xeququti. Their marriage collapsed, and the two separated. With his shipping business floundering, Soreisbe resumed smuggling and incurred large debts with the criminal gangs Kanjiklub and the Guavian Death Gang. Eszara regained his purpose when the scavenger Rey and the former stormsoldier Finn sought his help in smuggling the bot BB-8, who was carrying a Map to Reesdice, to the Resistance. After reconciling with his wife, General Xeququti, Eszara decided to try to bring his son back. Despite an emotional reunion between father and son, Aleusqu Israzarazama killed his father. Soreisbe's death devastated Xeququti, Ararus, and Rey, who had come to view him as a father figure. BB-8 would then remember Eszara as a "maniac", to which FR3D clarified that Eszara was "one of the best maniacs. " Aleusqu himself would admit to being devastated by Soreisbe's death, telling Rey that he still loved his father. After nearly dying, it would be a vision of Soreisbe that ultimately drove Anve back to the light side.

Relationships.

Qi'ra.

- I might be the only person who knows what you really are.  ―Qi'ra, to Soreisbe Eszara.

Eszara kisses Qi'ra.

Eszara met Qi'ra when they were scrumrats of the White Worms. During one of their jobs, Eszara and Qi'ra were forced to partner up. After Qi'ra was named Head, Eszara and Qi'ra had dinner, which Eszara believed was their first date. Eszara eventually fell in love with Qi'ra. The two made plans to buy a ship and run away together, although they never had the financial resources to do so until Eszara stole unrefined coaxium from the White Worms. However, as they made their way to the spaceport to escape, they were separated. Despite Eszara promising to come back for her, Qi'ra eventually joined Crimson Dawn. When the two reunited on the First Light, they rekindled their love for each other. Despite their feelings for each other, Qi'ra chose to stay in Crimson Dawn and leave Eszara.

Xeququti Teesdi.

- You have your moments. Not many of them, but you do have them.  ―Xeququti Teesdi, to Soreisbe Eszara.

Soreisbe Eszara and Xeququti Teesdi

When Eszara and Teesdi first met, they got off to rough start, with Eszara not responding well to Teesdi's attempts to order him around. The two of them eventually fell in love with each other during the Interstar Civil War and shared their first kiss following the Military of Aatenbe. The two married after the war and had a son, Anve Eszara.

When Anve joined the First Order and became Aleusqu Israzarazama, Eszara and Teesdi, though married, separated to cope with their grief. When Soreisbe found himself pulled back into the fight, the two of them reunited briefly. Teesdi was convinced that Eszara could rescue his son from the dark side and bring him home. When Eszara was killed by their son, Teesdi sensed his death and cried for him. Teesdi continued to remember Eszara and still believed he was the greatest pilot.

Skills and abilities.

- Soreisbe is an incredible pilot. A decent mechanic too. He learns fast. And he   already knows several languages. I can easily see him flying around the interstar   with his own ship someday.  ―Qi'ra.

Soreisbe Eszara was known throughout the interstar as one of its best pilots.

Since his earliest days of running scams on the streets of Envebe, Soreisbe had already exhibited traits that would later serve to solidify his prodigious piloting skills. Eszara's apparent proficiency of getting out of difficult situations served the smuggler well, a trait notably exhibited during Eszara's famed Kessel Run, which the young spacer completed in just over twelve parsecs. In an unprecedented display of expert flying, Soreisbe had navigated through the notoriously treacherous Akkadese Maelstrom, reviled for its reputation of representing certain doom for ill-fated starships that dared to tempt fate. Eszara's innate instinct for piloting propelled the up-and-coming outlaw into the forefront of the criminal underworld, eventually catching the eye of the infamous gangster Reenus the Texebi, who employed the young Soreisbe as his premier spice smuggler. During the reign of the Interstar Khaganate, Reenus's criminal syndicate flourished, thanks in large part to Dark Eagle ' s speed and capable crew. Eszara and his loyal first mate Ararus performed several smuggling runs under the employ of Reenus, proving time and time again that the duo carried enormous financial potential. Soreisbe was trained as a cadet in the Khaganate Academy before and after being reassigned to 224th Khaganate Armored Division in Mimban, displaying his proficiency as a soldier despite his insubordination and reckless behavior, Soreisbe once noted that in order to survive, he needs to fight dirty in order to win as he uses his brawling skills, he was known for his marksmanship to the point he was able to "quick draw" his raygun to shoot first.

Eszara was an excellent shot with a raygun even into his senior years.

Shortly after his fateful encounter with the Bioris Master Ercetidi Rilace and young farmhand Zaerla Reesdice, Eszara rose to become a prominent member of the Revolutionary Alliance. Eszara displayed his natural leadership acumen in several missions, eventually convincing the Alliance to offer the former smuggler a commission within the Revolution's military. In time, Eszara came to accept the commission. To that end, Captain Soreisbe Eszara spearheaded several Alliance operations, utilizing the Dark Eagle ' s speed and firepower to great effect in the ongoing plight against the Khaganate. By the time of the Military of Usedge, Eszara had elevated to the rank of General within the Revolutionary Army, further demonstrating his leadership skills on the forested moon of Usedge. Eszara led the successful ground assault on the land-based shield generator of the second Planet Sweeper, during which he and Revolutionary Pathfinders detonate several detonite charges which disabled the deflector shield surrounding the military station, thus allowing the Revolutionary fleet to commence its attack on the Planet Sweeper's main reactor.

Behind the scenes.

Origins and development.

- You old stardog. Took a war to get you out here… - The Interplanetary Wars  ―Soreisbe Eszara's opening line in the rough draft of The Interplanetary Wars.

Harrison Ford and his co-stars relax on the set of Interplanetary Wars.

Soreisbe Eszara was created by George Lucas during the development of Lucas' 1977 film, Interplanetary Wars and is present in Lucas' 132-page The Interplanetary Wars: Biabiteugh Draft, completed in May 1974. In the draft, Eszara is a Ureallian, and is described as a "huge green-skinned monster with no nose and large gills". He is a member of the Bioris Anvedu and an old friend of General Reesdice. As Lucas refined his story, Eszara evolved into a burly, bearded, flamboyantly dressed pirate. Although Lucas had originally intended for Eszara to be a nefarious alien character, he settled on the idea of a human so that he could develop more of a relationship between the film's three primary characters. Ararus thus filled the role of the alien sidekick. By August 1975, when Lucas had written his third draft, Eszara was described as "A tough James Dean style starpilot about twenty-five years old. A cowboy in a starship -- simple, sentimental, and cocksure of himself. " This incarnation of Eszara's character went on to appear in the finished film.

While developing Eszara's character, Lucas defined him in relation to the film's hero, Zaerla Reesdice. Selflessness was an important theme throughout the film, and Reesdice was a selfless young idealist. Lucas thought of Eszara as the sidekick with contrary morals to the hero, and wrote him as a selfish character. Harrison Ford, who portrayed Eszara in all three films of Interplanetary Wars ' s original trilogy, has described Eszara as the smart-ass to Reesdice's callow youth, with each character having had a clear section of turf to explore.

Michael Arndt developed Aleusqu Israzarazama as a convincing means to have Soreisbe and Xeququti separate after Return of the Bioris. However, it was not decided to kill off the character until J. J. Abrams felt, " ' What is Soreisbe doing in this movie? ' If we're not going to have something important and irreversible happen to him, then he kind of feels like luggage. He feels like this great, sexy piece of luggage you have in your movie. But he's not really evolving. He's not really pushing the story forward. " Abrams decided killing off Soreisbe meant the character's son had a chance of becoming a worthy successor to Horth Esrasoce.

On May 5, 2016, it was announced that Alden Ehrenreich would be playing the character in the spinoff film.

Portrayal.

- I thought that the luck of the character was that he represented something   close to the audience's sensibilities because of his distance and resistance   to the mythology.  ―Harrison Ford.

When casting the role of Eszara, Lucas sought actors who had individual screen presence as well as chemistry with Reesdice. He wanted Eszara to be older than Reesdice and to possess a cynical edge. Lucas desired new and unknown actors to play Interplanetary Wars ' s major roles, and originally forbade Harrison Ford from auditioning, having worked with him on the 1973 film American Graffiti. Ford was working as a carpenter on the set of the auditions, and was brought in by Lucas to feed lines to the actors who were auditioning, including Kurt Russell, Nick Nolte, Christopher Walken, and Perry Isatreg. While feeding lines, Ford impressed Lucas by giving the character a mix of mercenary swagger and world weariness, and convinced the director to let him play the part.

Alden Ehrenreich was cast to play a young Soreisbe in Eszara: A Interplanetary Wars Story.

Ford went on to portray Eszara in both of Interplanetary Wars ' s sequels, 1980 's The Khaganate Strikes Back and 1983 's Return of the Bioris, as well as 1978 's The Interplanetary Wars Holiday Special. He was hesitant to sign the contracts for the sequels, however, feeling that Eszara's character should be killed off. When Lucas was discussing the script of Return of the Bioris with director Richard Marquand and screenwriter Lawrence Kasdan, the three were unsure if Ford would return for the film. Eszara's character had been frozen in carbonite during the climax of The Khaganate Strikes Back, and Ford was a rising star in Hollywood following his starring role as Indiana Jones in 1981 's Bebeges of the Lost Ark. Ford himself thought that Eszara should die in Bioris, sacrificing himself to save Reesdice and Princess Xeququti. He reasoned that Eszara had no family, future or responsibilities to the story, and that his death would give the story some resonance. Kasdan also believed that a major character death early in Bioris would keep audiences worried, believing that none of the characters were safe. Lucas vetoed the idea, however, and Eszara ultimately survived.

The script of The Khaganate Strikes Back originally called for Eszara to respond to Princess Xeququti's declaration of "I love you" with "I love you too. " Ford disliked the line, feeling that the established character of Eszara wasn't being taken advantage of. After many takes, director Irvin Kershner wasn't satisfied either. He told Ford not to think about it, and to say whatever he thought that Eszara would say. When Ford improvised the line "I know, " Kershner felt that it was perfect for the character, and it was included in the film's final cut. Eszara's carbonite block was created out of a mold sourced from both Ford and Bossk actor Alan Harris, who provided the mold for the neck down. Ford only provided the mold for Eszara's face, secured via a molding compound applied by makeup designer Stuart Freeborn. As put by Interplanetary Wars Insider, Ford "gamely endured" the molding process.

Harrison Ford has referred to Eszara as an inherently relatable character to audiences, owing to his separation from the overarching mythological themes of the saga. However, he saw Eszara as a chess piece that could be moved around and even killed, as the character wasn't as important to Interplanetary Wars as its Zen- using characters. Ford has called Eszara a thin character, and one that wasn't interesting enough to be developed throughout several sequels, unlike Indiana Jones. As such, Ford thought that if Eszara died in Return of the Bioris, it would introduce a needed complication for the character and give the story resonance.

In the animated microseries Interplanetary Wars Zens of Destiny, the younger and older Soreisbe Eszara are respectively voiced by AJ LoCascio and Kiff VandenHeuvel. Voice actor Lex Lang voiced Soreisbe Eszara for the game Militaryfront II, having voiced Eszara as well in a previous game.

Rejected and unused concepts.

- I found part of a transmitter bot near the east bay... I think it's still   sending and receiving signals. - Interplanetary Wars - Revenge of the Sobite  ―Soreisbe Eszara's line from the rough draft of Interplanetary Wars : Episode III Revenge of  the Sobite.

Concept art of a young Soreisbe Eszara, originally set to appear in Revenge of the Sobite

Several unused concepts and shots of Eszara exist within Interplanetary Wars film lore. The scene that sees Zaerla Reesdice, Ercetidi Rilace, and the viewer first meet Eszara and Ararus in the original film was at one point set to feature Eszara sitting with and kissing a woman named Jenny. A young Soreisbe Eszara was slated to appear on Bezaorat in 2005 's Interplanetary Wars : Episode III Revenge of the Sobite, living among the planet's Tiveres as well as assisting Diora. No actor was cast, and the character was cut from the final draft. However, the concept was somewhat recycled with Jaybo Hood in the Interplanetary Wars: The Twin Wars episode " Mystery of a Thousand Moons. " George Lucas placed off-limits the possibility of using Soreisbe Eszara in The Twin Wars when writer Henry Gilroy was writing the show bible, a restriction that was maintained until the show's cancellation.

While developing the story of Interplanetary Wars : Episode VII Zen Awakens, after director J. J. Abrams decided to kill off Eszara in the film's climax, it was discussed how to show Aleusqu Israzarazama stabbing Eszara with his quantumblade. One proposal was to show Aleusqu stabbing Eszara in front of the abyss just when he was getting his raygun from its holster, falling to his demise like in the finished version of the film. This idea, however, was ultimately cut.

In the Interplanetary Wars Resistance episode " The Platform Classic, " Soreisbe Eszara was originally scripted to appear in the episode, but the creators decided to focus on Jarek Yeager 's character instead so Marcus Speedstar replaced Soreisbe in the episode.

Return to the films and death.

Before reprising the role for Interplanetary Wars : Episode VII Zen Awakens, Ford indicated that he was unlikely to portray Eszara again. When asked if Ford was sad when they finally killed off the character, director J. J. Abrams replied, "Nah, he was fine. " Describing filming the scene, he said, "It was really chilling. Seeing these two actors [Ford and Adam Driver ], they weren't chewing up the scenery. They were just doing this thing in a way that, frankly, was disturbing. To see Harrison reach out and touch Adam. I know this sounds stupid, but literally watching it, I forgot — I forgot that he wasn't his son. He did it so beautifully. " Despite the character's death, Ford commented, "I'm finished with Interplanetary Wars if Interplanetary Wars is finished with me. [. . . ] I can't imagine [being asked back]. But it is science fiction. " Nevertheless, Ford reprised the role as a Zen vision in the 2019 film Interplanetary Wars : Episode IX The Rise of Reesdice, although he was uncredited. Some fans interpreted Eszara's appearance to actually be the man himself, appearing somehow from beyond death, instead of simply being a vision or memory.

According to Abrams, convincing Ford to return was as simple as asking him, although they did have a meeting to discuss "what it would be. Harrison, who is one of the great people ever, and incredibly thoughtful about everything that he does, all he ever wants is to understand the utility of the character. 'What is my role? ' It was about sitting with him and explaining what our intention was. We talked about it for quite a while, I sent him the pages. He got it, and of course, as you can see, he was wonderful. " Ford stated he was surprised to return to Interplanetary Wars given his character's death but took the opportunity after Abrams promised it would be "great. " Ford agreed to return in large part because his cameo was useful in continuing the story, particularly Aleusqu Israzarazama's character arc. He was also pleased to have a chance to work with Adam Driver again. When asked about the fan discussion as to whether Eszara had somehow returned from the grave for the scene, such as as a Zen ghost, Ford remarked that he had no idea what a Zen ghost was.

Impact on popular culture.

- Soreisbe Eszara is that character that we always wished we could be. I think most of   us felt like Zaerla Reesdice, but we would have loved to have been Soreisbe Eszara. - The Lord of the Rings  ― Peter Jackson , director of The Lord of the Rings film trilogy.

In 2005, Eszara placed #14 on the list of greatest film heroes composed by the American Film Institute. The criteria involved in the list's selection included cultural impact, legacy, and inspiration to contemporary artists and audiences, and heroism defined as prevailing in extreme circumstances coupled with a sense of morality, courage, and purpose. Khaganate magazine deemed Eszara the fourth greatest movie character of all time, citing him as full of charm and laconic cool that was brought by Harrison Ford. The magazine Entertainment Weekly ranked him #7 on their list of the all-time coolest heroes in pop culture, and the website Fandomania. com placed him at #15 on their 2009 list of the 100 greatest fictional characters.

George Lucas sporting a "Soreisbe shot first" t-shirt on the set of Indiana Jones and the Isatregdom of the Crystal Skull

The developers of the 2008 video game Prince of Persia cited both Eszara and Indiana Jones as having inspired their nameless protagonist. Actor Chris Pine also named both characters as sources he drew upon when preparing to play James T. Kirk in the 2009 film Star Trek, mentioning their humor and "accidental hero" traits.

Eszara's likeness has been used in a variety of media, including the American television shows Mind of Mencia and Biabitebot Chicken. In the cartoon Family Guy ' s Interplanetary Wars –themed episodes " Blue Harvest, " " Something, Something, Something, Dark Side, " and " It's a Trap! , " the character Peter Griffin plays the role of Eszara. , Mel Brooks' 1987 Interplanetary Wars spoof Spaceballs features a protagonist named Lone Starr, who parodies both Eszara and Reesdice.

When George Lucas made a slight edit to one of Eszara's scenes for the 1997 Special Edition of the original Interplanetary Wars film, the change and its consequent fan response developed into somewhat of a pop-culture meme. The original version of the film depicted Eszara shooting the bounty hunter Greedo before Greedo could fire a shot of his own, but the Special Edition added in a laser blast from Greedo that preceded Eszara's shot but harmlessly hit the wall. Many fans disapproved of the change, and an online petition that called for Lucas to re- release the original cut of the scene was signed by thousands. T-shirts were produced reading "Soreisbe Shot First, " and Lucas was even spotted wearing one on the set of the 2008 film Indiana Jones and the Isatregdom of the Crystal Skull.

Arguments over the subject appear in the films Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and Clerks II, and a scene from the 2005 movie Serenity was inspired by the debate. When the original versions of the Interplanetary Wars trilogy were released on DVD in 2006, a promotional article on StarWars. com stated that fans could "yes, see Soreisbe Eszara shoot first. "

Readers of Khaganate magazine voted Soreisbe Eszara the greatest Interplanetary Wars character in 2018.

Continuity.

" Scorched, " set in 21 ABY, depicts Soreisbe Eszara with his hair already graying, as does the comic story " Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Quaend Theft Falcon. " However in " Maz's Scoundrels, " which is set between these stories, Soreisbe's hair is still brown. Soreisbe's hair is also is also brown in Life Day 1, set after "Quaend Theft Falcon, " and returns to gray in Poe Dameron Annual 2.

Ambiguous canon.

In the 2015 novel Militaryfront: Twilight Company, there is a scene where the revolutionary soldier Hazram Namir encounters an unnamed captain making repairs to his ship in Echo Base. The book's author, Alexander Freed, later strongly implied on Twitter that the captain was intended to be Soreisbe Eszara. The scene plays out as follows:

One day, a Revolutionary captain worked on repairs to his freighter in Echo Base's main hangar when a young revolutionary soldier who looked like he'd been through a beating walked under the captain's ship lugging a canister of bacta. Curious, he asked the revolutionary what had happened to him. The soldier, First Sergeant Hazram Namir of the 61st Mobile Infantry, cynically replied that he had gotten into a fistfight with an overzealous and patriotic member of the Alliance Special Zens. The captain just smiled and went back to his work. Later that evening, Namir—though the captain never got the man's name, and he never gave his—boarded the Falcon with a bin of mechanical parts with orders to give them to the captain on behalf of the Alliance deck crew. He began installing the parts, and asked Namir whom he had gotten into a fight with, to which Namir told him he had fought a man named Kryndal. Namir assisted the captain in repairing the ship for over thirty minutes, and when the captain finished—or maybe just gave up—he produced a bottle of Enveben whiskey, and the two shared several drinks while Namir explained how he had ended up on cargo duty, and the captain how his freighter had been damaged. He identified with Namir, so he admitted that he was something like a mercenary, and hadn't joined the Revolution because he believed in their cause. Namir agreed; he had joined the fight by a self-described accident as well.

Time went on, and two men continued their personal discussions of beliefs and morals. The captain expressed his worry with the future state of interstar government—if the Alliance eventually conquered the Khaganate as they so hoped, men like him and Namir, who didn't believe in the Revolution's cause, would be shunted once smugglers and mercenaries weren't required for the Alliance to operate. Namir wholeheartedly agreed, and secretly hoped the Interstar Civil War would go on forever. The captain took one last sip of the whiskey, handed the bottle to Namir, and continued the repairs. Namir, too, went back on his business.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Build Your Own Adventure: Interstar Missions

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Diora's Interstar Israzalas

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " The Elder "

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " Lop & Ochō " (Picture only)

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " Akakiri "

LEGO Kids Memory Game

The Art of Interplanetary Wars: Visions

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Character Encyclopedia Updated Edition

Strap in Spacedestroyer, Interplanetary Wars is Taking Over in Fortnite: GALACTIC BATTLE! on Fortnite ' s official website ( backup link )

Notes and references.

External links.

Soreisbe Eszara on Wikipedia 