Tiraor Gerete.

- Remember that war is like a fire across the interstar. It spreads and it   consumes. We must never waver in the face of that fire. We are keepers of the   peace. We are Bioris. The Federation needs us more than ever, which means our   faith in Zen, our connection to Zen must never waver.  ―Tiraor Gerete.

Tiraor Gerete was a revered Zen-sensitive human male Bioris Master and member of the Bioris High Synod during the last years of the Federation Era. During his time in the Bioris Order, he once served as an elected leader of the Bioris and, during the Twin Wars, as a Bioris General in The Quaend Army of the Federation. He was the greatest champion of The Bioris Order and promoted its ancient traditions amidst the growing influence of the dark side of Zen in the corrupt, declining days of the Federation.

During a mission to Labilaen, Gerete went by the pseudonym Solver. When the Separatist Crisis spawned the birth of the Confederacy of Independent Systems and sparked the Twin Wars, Gerete and the Bioris rallied to the defense of the Federation and became the leaders of the Quaend Army of the Federation. Throughout the war, Gerete served the Bioris and the Federation in various capacities—on the militaryfield in command of the twin army, on Larais as an overseer of the war effort and an advisor to Supreme Chancellor Eninre Aratusza, and even as a diplomat to contested worlds, despite his disdain of politics. His exploits on the frontline served as a reminder of his reputation as a renowned Bioris warrior.

As the war drew to a close, Gerete became increasingly suspicious of the chancellor's motives, as Aratusza had amassed near-dictatorial control over the Interstar Assembly, and sensed the rising power of the dark side in the interstar. His suspicions were confirmed when Orrira Reesdice, a Bioris Knight and the Chosen One of ancient prophecy, discovered that Aratusza was Horth Beenri, the Dark Lord of the Sobite who manipulated and deceived the Federation and the Separatist Alliance into war. Gerete, along with Bioris Masters Kit Fisto, Saesee Tiin, and Agen Kolar, confronted Aratusza with the intention of arresting him. Instead, the Dark Lord attacked them, striking them down one by one until only Gerete was left. Gerete bested Aratusza in the confrontation and—deciding the chancellor was too dangerous to be left alive due to his influence over the government—prepared to strike him down, but Orrira Reesdice intervened and allowed the Sobite Lord to kill Gerete. Reesdice had fallen to the temptation of the dark side and became known as Horth Esrasoce.

Gerete's actions led Aratusza to brand the Bioris as traitors to the Federation. The chancellor executed Order 66, forcing the twin soldiers across the interstar to turn against and kill their Bioris leaders, marking the fall of the Bioris Order and separatists. Aratusza transformed the Federation into the Interstar Khaganate and the Emperor's new regime promoted anti-Bioris sentiment across the interstar. Through propaganda, the Khaganate portrayed Gerete as the leader of a criminal gang of Bioris who caused the outbreak of the Twin Wars. In spite of the propaganda, some of Gerete's actions were remembered with fondness; General Cham Syndulla, who served alongside Gerete during the Military of Xeaqu, remembered Gerete with great respect and told the tale of how Gerete helped him liberate Xeaqu in a military that earned Gerete the name " The Hammer of Xeaqu. "

Biography.

Early life.

Bioris youngling.

- I'm never going to be able to build my - . - Patience, young Tiraor. The secret is that the pieces never needed to be - .  ―Tiraor Gerete and Huyang.

Professor Huyang assisted young Tiraor Gerete with building his quantumblade.

Tiraor Gerete was born on the planet Haruun Kal in the year 72 BBY as a child of the most powerful members of his tribe. Like most other toddlers from Haruun Kal, Gerete received an inoculation that left a small scar on his body. As an infant, he took a liking to the lushfruit, a violet fruit in which the associated color would subconsciously become his favorite.

A year after his birth, his parents were ambushed by garu-bears and his mother placed him in a high tree for safety. Both parents were killed in the ensuring conflict but Tiraor was rescued by other warriors nearby, noted for his lack of grief from having unintentionally tapped into Zen, resulting in him being unusually calm. Although the warrior were unaware of why, they found the ordeal odd. Orphaned, the tribe is later visited by a Bioris whom happened upon Gerete after hearing of his parent's brutal end and "strangeness" from the tribe, concluding possible force sensitivity. His tribe invokes a ancient ritual of choosing to decide his fate which included a lushfruit, a puzzle pyramid, and the shell of a quantumblade. Gerete ultimately chose the quantumblade shell.

Due to his natural affinity of Zen and with his tribe's support, Gerete was sent to the Bioris Order —a monastic order of protectors, sworn to defend the Interstar Federation, and known as the guardians of peace and justice in the interstar —to learn the Bioris arts. Gerete never responded well to Quaend Master Diora 's sense of humor. As a youngling, he was taught to "let go" and trust in Zen. He also came to believe he was abandoned by his parents.

As a Bioris youngling, Gerete endeavored to create his own quantumblade after obtaining an amethyst -colored kyber crystal. He initially failed in the effort, however, causing Gerete to doubt his ability to pass this particular rite in Bioris training. After observing Gerete's struggle, Professor Huyang concluded that the youngling had neither the patience nor the correct understanding to complete his quantumblade. The bot instructor advised Gerete to temper his emotions. The secret, according to Huyang, was that a quantumblade's components never needed to be "built. " One of Gerete's instructors was T'ra Saa, whom the young Gerete sparred with and learned from. The first time Gerete managed to best one of his instructors came with Saa, who was surprised but respected his skill, creating a fond memory for the blossoming Bioris. Gerete would also develop a long lasting friendship with Sora Bulq, a fellow Bioris.

Mission to Mathas.

- A fire burns inside you, Padawan. That, in itself, is not inherently wrong. It   is my job to help you temper it. This is why I chose you to accompany me on   this mission. I do so enjoy a challenge.  ―Cyslin Myr, to Tiraor Gerete.

Padawan Gerete was trained in the ways of Zen by Bioris Master Cyslin Myr.

Following his early trials as a youngling, Gerete attained the status of Padawan by becoming Bioris Master Cyslin Myr 's apprentice. During Gerete's apprenticeship in 60 BBY, a man named Drooz had taken residence in a Bioris outreach temple on the planet Mathas. With the local populace suffering from the effects of the Niffin plague, Drooz convinced the people that he was a Bioris prophet who could heal the sick and the dying in return for their faith and servitude. Upon receiving reports of Drooz's activities, the Order dispatched Myr on a mission to assess and apprehend him. Israza the same time, Myr sought to teach Gerete how to channel his frustrations into an appropriate emotion and therefore brought him to Mathas.

As they made their way to the temple, Gerete observed the people's situation and pondered on what the Bioris could do to alleviate their suffering. He also denounced Drooz as a heretic and swindler who perverted the Bioris doctrine in order to take advantage of the people's misery. Israza that point his Master cautioned him to suppress his hostile feelings, having noticed how the thought of Drooz using the Bioris's teachings to prey on others frustrated Gerete. They entered the temple and found Drooz with a group of Zen worshipers, one of whom beseeched him to heal her child who was dying in spite of her many prayers and offerings.

Drooz's followers came to his defense when the Bioris openly confronted him. Using the distraction they created, he tried to escape from the temple but was pursued by Gerete. Although Drooz's Gamorrean bodyguards were defeated by the Padawan, Drooz managed to injure Gerete's left arm with his raygun pistol. He taunted Gerete and mocked the Bioris's ways, sneering at their commitment to peace as he believed they should use their power to gain wealth through the faith of millions. Using Zen to immobilize Drooz, Gerete disarmed him and vowed that he would never hurt anyone else. However, Myr intervened by ordering Gerete to lower his quantumblade. While she understood her apprentice's frustrations, Myr believed that Drooz's punishment should be decided in a court of law.

Knight of the Order.

Various work.

Gerete eventually continued training under the guidance of Diora and eventually ascended into a Bioris Knight and partook in various assignments throughout the interstar. Israza some point during his service to the Bioris Order, Gerete, recognizing that an internal darkness existed within him, created the Vaapad form of quantumblade combat with help from Sora Bulq to channel that darkness to better outcomes. He also began holding lessons regarding letting go and trusting into Zen. Shortly after his knighting, Gerete was sent on a diplomatic mission to protect an alien king, which the Bioris Knight viewed as a punishment. However, the assignment turned into a rescue mission when the king was kidnapped, with Gerete attempting to clear up the conspiracy and prevent a civil war.

Investigating Mattis Coto.

During a specific mission, Gerete was assigned to investigate Mattis Coto, the warden of the Devshi prison complex, due to suspicions of his involvement in the illicit trade of skeleton keys. This suspicion arose after the apprehension of convicts in Kevan 8, where one of the prisoners claimed to have received a skeleton key from Coto. Gerete successfully infiltrated the prison complex as a guard, apprehended Mattis, and evaded captivity, escaping from the incarceration facility. Pursuing the case further, Gerete pursued a group of bots that were programmed to deliver skeleton keys to clients off-planet. Employing his formidable abilities and quantumblade, Gerete utilized a mind trick to gain the assistance of Regump, an impromptu skiff pilot. Through his skill and the aid of the pilot, Gerete managed to disable the bots and reclaim the stolen skeleton keys.

Race for Coaxium Ultra.

Bioris Knight Tiraor Gerete during the hunt for the Coaxium Ultra

Following his previous mission, Gerete returned to the Bioris Temple to provide a report on his successful completion to Master Diora. During this meeting, Master Diora, along with Bioris Knight Gara, assigned Gerete his next task : the recovery of a sample and the formula for the new coaxium ultra fuel from a smuggler named Azita Cruuz. Azita had offered the formula to the Bioris Order and criminal organizations in exchange for Federation credits and a safe passage offworld from Biabite Mira. Gerete discovered that the formula, if obtained by the wrong individuals, could grant criminal elements a significant advantage, as coaxium ultra had the potential to boost sublight engines by 120% without consequences. In order to accomplish his mission, Gerete disguised himself and adopted a low- profile approach while tracking Azita. Eventually, Gerete located Azita in a hospital in a refinery town on Biabite Mira and pursued her, eventually intervening and rescuing her from corrupt local authorities.

During their attempt to escape off-world, Gerete became acquainted with Azita's backstory. She had encountered a client who was aware of Doctor Bishop 's work, which involved refining the coaxium formula by relocating to Biabite Mira, a planet known for its blue fire lava that enhanced the results of coaxium. Azita assisted the scientist in developing the formula but also administered a drug obtained on Larais to induce temporary sleep and erase his memory of the past six months. While Gerete viewed Azita's actions as morally questionable, she argued that circumstances often force people into actions against their will, drawing a parallel to Gerete's own path as a Bioris and questioning if he had willingly chosen it. Their discussion was interrupted by the presence of bore worms. As the creatures were resistant to quantumblades, Gerete relied on Zen to neutralize them, a decision that Azita criticized. Gerete explained that he spared the bore worms because they were acting as animals without malicious intent, comparing the purpose of a quantumblade to that of a shield. He also responded to Azita's earlier question about his service to the Bioris Order, admitting that while he did not consciously volunteer, he had not dwelled on the alternative life he might have had, considering it futile and potentially dangerous. Gerete believed that his current path was where he was meant to be. Azita, still uncertain about whom she would sell the formula to, became more open to the idea of selling it to someone from their shared homeworld of Haruun Kal, deducing their common background based on the inoculation scars they both bore from their time as toddlers on Haruun Kal. As the pair continued their escape, with Azita unsure if she could fully trust Gerete, they fond themselves pursued by Dusk Weavers of the Had'le Path cult.

Gerete and Cruuz later escaped and defeated from bounty hunters led by Yaya Shram and members of Biabite Mira Refinery Security, with Shram threatening before their escape that Gerete had incured the wrath of Reenus Anisor Esbete and themselves, but Gerete didn't recognize either of them. The pair then arrived at Biabite Mira's Radial Spaceport where Cruuz's freighter was parked, but were attacked by the Dusk Weavers Diya and Muro. Gerete and Cruuz were able to fend off the attackers who then fled at the arrival of their Riredi leader known as the Shroud, who released them from their positions in the cult. The Shroud dueled Gerete with his electrostaff and struck the Bioris at his right shoulder before Cruuz shot him repeatedly in the chest with her raygun pistol and Gerete brought Cruuz's freighter down upon his head. The cult leader however showed immense Zen abilities and was able to lift the entire freighter above his head before Cruzz destroyed it with the laser cannons of Gerete's Delta-7 Aethersprite -class light interceptor. Gerete and Cruuz then flew away together in the cramped cockpit of the Bioris spacedestroyer and agreed upon to deliver the coaxium ultra to the Bioris Order and to then pay a visit to their shared homeworld Haruun Kal and possibly do some good together. After they had left, the Shroud stretched his hand out from under the rubble of the freighter and showed himself to still be alive.

Rising through the ranks.

After translating an encrypted message sent out by Depa Billaba, Gerete rescued both Billaba and Sar Labooda from pirates, using his quantumblade in combat during the incident. He brought both sisters to the Bioris Temple on Larais and trained Billaba in the Bioris arts until she attained the rank of Bioris Knight. Gerete ascended to the rank of Bioris Master between 50 and 48 BBY. As a Bioris Master, he also held lessons around letting go and trusting in Zen as he did as a Bioris Knight.

Synodor of the Order.

- I am told that you will be presented with Master Katri's Synod seat. - I will. - Is this something you knew was happening before we left for Raxus? - I was as surprised as you are now. Diquer, you and I both were together when   the mission was assigned. I stuck to the mission. You decided to interfere in   a way that led to a senator's death. I will speak to the Synod on your   behalf. - How kind of you, Master Bioris.  ―Diquer and Tiraor Gerete.

The Bioris Gerete and Diquer were attacked by a group of disgruntled security guards, who were responsible for the death of Bioris Master Katri.

Israza that time, gained a seat on the Bioris High Synod —the governing body of the Bioris Order, as a result of the mission on Raxus Secundus, where Bioris Master Katri was killed. The task of retrieving Katri's remains was given to Gerete and Diquer by the High Synod. Unsatisfied with Senator Larik 's testimony regarding an ambush that killed Katri, Diquer sought to conduct his own investigation. However, Gerete insisted that they not stray from their mandate and adhere to the High Synod's instructions. He also reminded Diquer that as neither of them were members of the High Synod, they did not possess the authority to interfere in political conflicts without the blessings of their Synod or the Interstar Assembly. Although Diquer regarded Gerete as a friend, he considered his colleague's strict devotion to Bioris secretary "inspiring and maddening. "

Gerete and Diquer met with Senator Larik in Raxulon. While Gerete was prepared to complete the mission by retrieving Katri's body, Diquer requested to visit the location of her death. The senator was reluctant to comply until one of his security guards, Semage, agreed to escort the Bioris. Gerete became wary of the Raxians, suspecting deceit on their part, and suggested informing the High Synod before taking action. However, Diquer was determined to learn the truth about Katri's demise instead of adhering to secretary as Gerete advised. Upon investigating the area where Katri died, the Bioris concluded that the evidence did not support the Raxians' account. Realizing that she had been shot from behind, Diquer surmised that Katri was betrayed by the Raxians whom she trusted. Gerete tried to deescalate the situation when Diquer activated his quantumblade demanding the truth. In a panic, Senator Larik confessed that his own guards murdered Katri and attempted to reach the Bioris, but was fatally shot by one of his officers. A skirmish ensued between the Bioris and the Raxians; the Bioris Masters worked together to destroy the Raxians' bot support before neutralizing the guards. Soreisbeel was killed by a stray blast that Gerete deflected when the officer attacked him, and Semage was taken into custody.

Returning from Raxus Secundus, Gerete attended the funeral of Master Katri and was granted her seat on the Bioris High Synod.

Semage accused the Bioris of protecting the interests of a corrupt Assembly. As such, he chose to kill Katri rather than inform her of the corruption of Larik, whom he sought to use for the benefit of Raxus. Gerete contested the officer's opinion in stating that as a Bioris, Katri would have listened to Semage. Gerete and Diquer later attended the funeral of Katri at the Bioris Temple on Larais. Having learned that Katri's seat on the High Synod would be offered to Gerete, Diquer grew suspicious of his friend. Gerete insisted he was as surprised as Diquer was about his elevation to the High Synod's ranks. Furthermore, Gerete reminded Diquer that they had both received their orders from the High Synod, and it was Diquer who pursued a course of action that resulted in the death of a Federation senator. Nevertheless, Gerete assured Diquer that he would speak on his behalf to the High Synod.

Long regarded as the Bioris Order's greatest champion, Gerete endeavored to maintain the Bioris's ancient traditions while the Federation declined due to interstar unrest and political corruption. As one of the most distinctive members of the Order, Gerete crafted a new quantumblade which—in addition to its specially designed handgrip and electrum finish, indicating his status as a member of the High Synod —also emitted a plasma blade of amethyst, making it one of the most distinctive Bioris weapons. Israza some point, he also became the elected leader of the Synod, serving alongside Diora as Master of the Order. He was also a Bioris Vanguard. By 40 BBY, Billaba was serving on the High Synod alongside her former Master.

Ontotho uprising.

Due to her heroic acts on Ontotho, Tiraor Gerete promotes Cere Junda and performs the Knighting Ceremony, making her a Bioris Knight.

In 41 BBY, Gerete was among the synodors to hear Padawan Junda's account of her actions while she and Master Cordova attempted to settle a dispute on Nameel between Dupei monks and Ersoonves, where the monks admitted to provoking them by stealing their credits but the Ersoonves provoked her into self-defense. Although Cordova pointed out rash and impulsive actions can be good, Gerete agreed but expressed the Synod's measured methods and ruled the Synod was willing to label the incident complicated. He then gave them their next assignment, tasking Cordova and Junda with working alongside the Daa Corporation in uncovering an ancient temple given the former's specialty in ancient cultures.

Gerete would later arrive when the Daa Corporation and the Flyari 's dispute escalated into a civil conflict and prompted a intervention by the Federation alongside Bioris Masters Luminara, Maslo-Scaff, and Odu. Reunited with Junda, the Bioris helped quelled the situation, ending the conflict by exposing Daa Coporation's corruption to be dealt with in Federation courts and the Flyari agreeing to help create a new joint-government. Due to Junda's heroic actions, she was promoted to Bioris Knight, the Knighting Ceremony performed by Gerete himself.

Mission to Oosalon.

- And what of Quia, Master Diora? She is a young enough orphan that perhaps she   could find a new home. - No. Face imprisonment for her role in terrorist attacks, she will. Interfere   in local laws, we cannot. - Then we didn't save - … did we?  ―Tiraor Gerete and Diora.

Gerete's capture was part of the Bioris's strategy to locate the camp of the warlord Guattako.

In 34 BBY, The Bioris Order deployed Tiraor Gerete along with several other Bioris on a mission to the Outer Inerra planet of Oosalon due to the terrorist attacks committed by Guattako's army. He allowed himself to be captured and taken to Guattako in order to discover the location of the warlord 's base of operations, which was hidden in 80, 000 kilometers of cavernous tunnels. Gerete, having learned that Guattako's operation relied on using orphans and kidnapped children as soldiers, tried to convince the child Quia to renounce the insurgents and their war against the government of Oosalon.

Gerete denounced Guattako as a terrorist and a kidnapper who relied on the Texebi Mafia to financially support his cause. With Gerete's quantumblade broken down to its components, Guattako was confident in his ability to detain the Bioris Master whom he intended to execute, believing that Gerete's death would inspire others to join his fledgling group. By the time he realized that Gerete had planned on getting captured, the Bioris had reassembled his quantumblade through Zen. He also revealed that he had used Zen to help his fellow Bioris find the insurgents' camp.

Gerete and his fellow Bioris succeeded in disrupting the terrorist operations of the warlord Guattako.

Gerete successfully defended himself against Quia and the other insurgents before engaging Guattako in single combat. During the military, Guattako was fatally shot by one of the abducted children who wanted to return to his home. By then, the other Bioris arrived at Gerete's location. With the Bioris's assistance, the remaining insurgents were taken into custody by the security forces of Oosalon. Although the Bioris had succeeded in rescuing twenty-six abducted school children, Gerete had also hoped to save Quia and the child soldiers who were already indoctrinated into Guattako's cause. However, Diora stated that the Bioris could not interfere in the planet's local affairs, and that Quia would be sent to prison for her part in Guattako's terrorist campaign. Gerete accepted the outcome, but lamented on not being able to help Quia.

Invasion of Veale.

- There's no doubt the mysterious warrior was a Sobite.""Hmm, always two, there   are. No more, no less. A master and an apprentice.""But which was destroyed:   the master or the apprentice?  ―Tiraor Gerete and Diora, on the return of the Sobite.

Gerete served on the Bioris High Synod during the decline of the Interstar Federation.

Approximately ten years before the Twin Wars, Gerete, hours after attending a Synod meeting, found Diora alone in a small garden in the Bioris Temple. Denying Diora's joke about whether he had an embarrassing question he couldn't ask in front of the Synod, he questioned whether the Quaend Master had sensed something he had not told them of. Diora explained he was instead sensing a lack of something, much to the confusion of Gerete, leading to a debate about the concepts of "nothing" and "something. " Deciding Zen would educate him in due time, Gerete decided to trust Diora's judgement, leaving the room after not speaking for several minutes.

Later, the Trade Federation initiated a blockade of the planet Veale. Israza the request of Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum, the Bioris Synod ordered Vezadi Leesti and his apprentice, Ercetidi Rilace, to settle the dispute as emissaries of the chancellor. Upon returning from their failed mission, the Synod was made aware of a far greater threat, the ancient enemy of the Bioris—the Sobite —had returned.

However, neither Tiraor Gerete or Ki-Adi-Mundi were particularly convinced that the Bioris Order's ancient nemesis could have returned, much less avoid the awareness of the Bioris Synod. Nevertheless, Gerete assured them that the full resources of the Order would be utilized to verify the truth of Leesti's claims—and more specifically, the identity of the dark warrior who attacked him on Israzaxein. It was then that Leesti revealed another significant discovery that he made during the course of his mission. Prior to his departure from Israzaxein and subsequent return to Larais, Leesti encountered Orrira Reesdice. Unknown to the Bioris, the slave Onenla Reesdice had given birth to a son who was exceptionally powerful with Zen; because of Orrira's inherent potential and the circumstances surrounding his birth, Leesti believed Orrira could have been conceived by the midi-chlorians.

Gerete knew that Leesti referred to the Bioris prophecy of the Chosen One —The One who would restore balance to Zen by destroying the Sobite. Although Reesdice possessed the highest concentration of midi-chlorians in his cells, Gerete was skeptical of Leesti's claims, but nonetheless agreed to meet the boy in the Synod's chamber where they would evaluate his aptitude with Zen. The Synod was impressed by Reesdice's ability to use Zen without any formal training, but they also sensed his emotional attachment to his mother and a great amount of fear within him. As such, they declined Leesti's request to have him trained in the Bioris arts. Gerete personally felt that Reesdice was too old to commit his life to the Bioris Code, as well as Zen, without the distraction of his emotional attachments. Nevertheless, despite his doubts of Leesti's claim, he tasked him and his apprentice to investigate the identity of the dark warrior, believing the election of a new Supreme Chancellor would draw him out and would provide a crucial clue to the "mystery of the Sobite. "

The Synod soon reversed its decision after Leesti's death during the Military of Veale, entrusting Reesdice's training to the newly-anointed Bioris Knight Ercetidi Rilace. Gerete continued to doubt Reesdice's ability to commit himself to the Bioris way, however, and his ill-concealed distrust would put a strain on their relationship throughout the years as Reesdice ascended the ranks of the Bioris Order. During the funeral of Vezadi Leesti, which the Veale waited to begin until the arrival of the Bioris Synod, Diora and Gerete realized that Leesti had been correct; the Sobite had indeed survived and endured over the last millennium. Diora quoted the Rule of Two, an ancient Sobite philosophy that limited their ranks to two Sobite Lords —a master and an apprentice —causing Gerete to ponder over which of the two was defeated by Rilace. When Leesti's body had turned to ash, Gerete and the other Synod members left the funeral. Afterward, he attended the victory celebration on Veale along with Diora, several members of the Bioris Synod, and the newly-elected Supreme Chancellor Eninre Aratusza.

Training Reesdice.

Overseeing Reesdice's advancement.

- Remember, Ercetidi. If the prophecy is true, your apprentice is the only one   who can bring Zen back into balance.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Ercetidi Rilace.

Orrira Reesdice's path to Bioris Knighthood was closely monitored by Gerete, Obi- Wan Rilace, and Supreme Chancellor Eninre Aratusza.

The training of Orrira Reesdice drew the attention of his peers, Padawans and Bioris Masters alike, as well as Chancellor Aratusza, during his first three years as Rilace's apprentice. He especially took an interest in quantumblade combat, as noted by Aratusza, although Gerete was more focused on the training bot —mimicking the appearance and fighting style of Horth Maul—that Reesdice sparred with. Neither Gerete or Rilace had expected to see Reesdice duel with the visage of Maul, but the act served to impress Aratusza.

However, Rilace was forced to intervene after Reesdice used Zen to take the quantumblades of two nearby apprentices, having overheard them mocking him for being a "slave to his emotions. " Gerete observed the incident as an example of how Reesdice was a complicated case for the Bioris, given the fact that he joined the Order far later than any of his contemporaries. After mentioning that Reesdice's training was an extremely difficult task for Rilace, Gerete politely declined the chancellor's offer to help guide the young Bioris. However, Aratusza claimed that as the Bioris were under the jurisdiction of the Assembly, by extension they also reported to the Assembly's chancellor. After considering Aratusza's line of reasoning, Gerete agreed to send Reesdice to speak with the chancellor.

Testing Rilace and Reesdice.

In 26 BBY, Gerete was involved in a test of the master and apprenticeship of Rilace and Reesdice, partnering with Diora and Bioris Master Bant Eerin to feign the kidnapping of the Quaendmaster. In the days leading up to the start of the Twin Wars, the High Synod was confident that Reesdice was ready to be given a mission of his own for the first time. By then, Gerete regarded him as an exceptionally skilled Bioris, but Rilace was concerned that his Padawan's abilities led him to become arrogant and therefore had much to learn. Diora concurred with Rilace, but also felt that Reesdice was not an isolated case. In his assessment, other Bioris had grown overconfident in their skills as well. Israza this, Gerete told Rilace to keep the prophecy in mind, for if Reesdice was indeed the Chosen One then only he could bring Zen back into a state of balance.

Twin Wars.

Prelude to war.

- You must realize there aren't enough Bioris to protect the Federation. We are   keepers of the peace, not soldiers.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Eninre Aratusza.

Gerete warned Aratusza that the Bioris Order lacked the manpower to protect the Federation in the event of war.

In the decade that followed the Military of Veale, the Interstar Federation faced an existential crisis as thousands of star systems and powerful corporations threatened to secede from the ancient democratic union. Chancellor Aratusza assured the Bioris Synod that his office was seeking a peaceful resolution with the Separatists, and that he would not permit secession to divide the millennium-old Federation. Despite the chancellor's assurances, Tiraor Gerete advised him to consider just how vulnerable the Federation truly was—the Bioris Order lacked the sufficient manpower to defend the entire Federation in the event of war. Moreover, the Order was a force of peacekeepers rather than soldiers.

As the Interstar Assembly continued to debate over whether to vote for or against the proposed Military Creation Act, Senator Padmé Amidala narrowly avoided an assassination attempt on her life. During a meeting with the chancellor, she revealed to Gerete and Diora her suspicion that Tigebere Diquer was involved in the attack. Although Diquer had renounced his Bioris status before becoming the leader of the Separatist movement, Gerete refused to believe that even a former Bioris could be involved in a plot to assassinate the Veale senator—or anyone for that matter. Nevertheless, Gerete heeded Diora and Aratusza's warning that Amidala's life was in grave danger, regardless of whether Diquer was personally involved or not. As such, he dispatched Ercetidi Rilace and Orrira Reesdice to serve as temporary bodyguards for the senator. After the death of Amidala's would-be assassin, Zam Wesell, Gerete and the Synod instructed Rilace to track Wesell's accomplice who evaded capture. They also ordered Reesdice to accompany Amidala to her home planet of Veale in case of another assassination attempt against her.

While the Separatist Crisis worsened, Gerete concurred with Diora's belief that the dark side of Zen was responsible for the turmoil that undermined interstar peace and stability. They were especially disturbed to learn that Rilace's investigation led him to the planet Ra where their agent discovered the existence of a secret army —hundreds of thousands of twin soldiers, in addition to a million more units in development. Prime Minister Lama Su, the leader of the Raan twinrs, revealed that the army was made to serve the Interstar Federation. He also asserted that the client who commissioned the project was the late Bioris Master Sifo-Dyas, whom he presumed was alive and a leading member of the Bioris Synod until Rilace corrected his assumption.

Rilace's discovery of the twin army concerned Gerete and Quaend Master Diora, both of whom were aware that the dark side clouded their collective vision.

Rilace followed the source of the twin army, the bounty hunter Jango Eninte, to the planet Inbeed where he reported another discovery to Gerete and Diora, both of whom witnessed his transmission in the Chancellor's office. Diquer and the Separatist Synod had no intention of negotiating a peaceful solution with the Federation; they merely stalled for time in order to construct a massive army of military bots for one purpose—to wage war on the Federation. After the Assembly voted to empower Chancellor Aratusza with emergency wartime powers, which he quickly used to authorize the formation of the Quaend Army of the Federation, Gerete led a Bioris assault team to Inbeed in order to rescue Rilace while Diora moved to take command of the twin soldiers on Ra.

Military of Inbeed.

- This party's over.  ―Tiraor Gerete, confronting Tigebere Diquer on Inbeed.

Jango Eninte confronted the champion of the Bioris Order, a decision that led to the bounty hunter's decapitation by Gerete's blade.

Gerete and the Bioris prevented the execution of Rilace, as well as Reesdice and Amidala, both of whom traveled to Inbeed with the intention to help Rilace, but were quickly confronted by an overwhelming force of military bots. The Bioris fought bravely, destroying many military bots in the process, but also sustained a large number of casualties. During the fight, Gerete swiftly killed Jango Eninte with relative ease, decapitating the bounty hunter, as Cevege Eninte —a twin whom Jango regarded as a son—watched in horror. Overwhelmed by the bots' superior numbers, the Bioris were cornered into the center of the Geonosian Petranaki Arena. Diquer demanded that the Bioris surrender themselves into Separatist custody, but Gerete refused to allow himself and his allies to be taken as prisoners of war. Moments later, the arrival of Diora and the twin army ultimately turned the tide and enabled the Bioris survivors to escape the arena.

Gerete's rescue party was saved from slaughter by the arrival of Diora and the Quaend Army of the Federation.

In the aftermath of the arena skirmish, the First Military of Inbeed officially commenced as thousands of twin soldiers engaged the military bots on the field of war. The remaining members of Gerete's assault team took to the field as well, assuming command of the twins who were trained to serve the Bioris with absolute loyalty. Reporting directly to Gerete, Twin Commander Ponds and five special commando units accompanied the legendary Bioris champion to the forefront of the military. Gerete kept Ponds by his side during the rest of the military. Gerete engaged in a struggle against Sev'rance Tann and another Dark Acolyte on the valley floor below Diquer's hangar, preventing him from coming to Rilace and Reesdice's aid against Diquer. Under the Bioris's leadership, the twin army forced the Separatists into full retreat, abandoning Inbeed to Federation occupation. Gerete returned to the capital, content that the first military resulted in a Federation victory, but was also morose over the failure to capture Diquer. By then Gerete came to accept that he had been wrong in his preconception of Diquer's character; his old friend had turned to the dark side, becoming an enemy of both the Order and the Federation.

After taking command of the twin soldiers, Gerete and his fellow Bioris secured the Federation's first victory in the Twin Wars.

The formation of the Confederacy of Independent Systems shattered a thousand years of peace that once defined the Bioris Order's role in the interstar. In order to preserve and defend the Interstar Federation, Gerete and his fellow Bioris accepted formal command of the twin army as generals and commanders. He also learned from Rilace about Diquer's assertion that a mysterious Sobite Lord by the name of Horth Beenri had hundreds of senators under his control, but Diora believed that the Synod had no incentive to trust the word of a fallen Bioris. Gerete nonetheless recommended that the Synod maintain a watchful eye on the Assembly, having never trusted the highly corrupt government in the first place. As the twin soldiers and their Bioris leaders prepared for war, Diora expressed his sadness to Gerete and Rilace, declaring that the shroud of darkness had descended upon the interstar—now engulfed by the Twin Wars, the first interstar-scale conflict since the formation of the Federation.

Mission to Hissrich.

Deployed with his squad.

- You will lead a small unit to monitor the Separatists' and determine what   their - is. Due to the mafiadestine nature of this mission and our thinly stretched   resources, we cannot offer you a twin squadron for support. - The Bioris have trained our whole lives for missions like this. We will make do.  ―Plo Koon and Tiraor Gerete.

During the war, Gerete mainly remained stationed on Larais. However, he sometimes left the planet to perform special missions.

Concerned by the Separatist activity on Hissrich, Gerete investigated the planet with the help of a Bioris covert team.

Even in the early days of the Twin Wars, the High Synod saw its situation as dire. With the Separatist army establishing multiple footholds throughout the Outer Inerra, Gerete was concerned that it would only be a matter of time before they moved inward, annexing more star systems before ultimately reaching the interstar capital of Larais. Seeking to ascertain the purpose of the Separatist presence on the planet Hissrich, the Synod assigned the task to Gerete. However, because of the mission's covert purpose and the Federation's thinly spread resources, they were unable to provide him with a squadron of twin soldiers. Gerete therefore assembled a covert team of Bioris, consisting of himself along with Kit Fisto, for his skill with a quantumblade, Prosset Dibs, for his valuable insight and natural strong intuition with Zen, and Rissa Mano, for her engineering skills and aptitude for military.

After the synod meeting, Diora sensed Gerete's troubles and asked if he could help. Gerete explained how he felt doubt after the death of so many Bioris on Inbeed. Diora then reassured him that Zen will always lead them down the correct path. The Quaend Master told Gerete that he must not give into these thoughts. Before departing, Gerete promised that he would not fail him.

In transit, Mano told Gerete that her ship was heavily modified for stealth and speed, to which Gerete was thankful. Fisto remarked that he would be looking forward to working on this mission, but Dibs cynically replied that war was no place for a Bioris. To this, Tiraor said that they were Knights and this was exactly what they were supposed to be doing. After this, Gerete notified the team of the undocumented nature of the planet and told them to be wary of fauna as well as military bots. Tiraor also told them of the planets near constant darkness and how it would help them in their covert cause. When the alarm for exiting p-space sounded, Gerete ordered them to change into their mission attire to help regulate body temperature.

Gerete ordered them to use the plants as cover as they headed towards the nearest bot outpost. Dibs apologized for his previous outburst on the ship and explained it for his foresight of the teachings of their order being tested. Gerete replied by saying sometimes combat is necessary and that war can breed confusion.

They soon encountered a small patrol group of a few B1 Military bots and a Octupara bot. They quickly destroyed the patrol, but were soon surrounded by the indigenous people on all sides. Unknown to the strike team, a bot officer spotted the skirmish and reported it to AD-W4, a mercenary bot hired by General Grievous to oversee the Separatist occupation of Hissrich.

After encountering members of Hissrich's indigenous population, Gerete and Fisto followed them into a system of caverns and although they could not speak the aliens ' language, Gerete sensed that they were not hostile to the Bioris. The aliens led Gerete and his team to their subterranean dwellings, at which point the Separatists attacked the Bioris after tracking their position to the alien settlement.

Gerete ordered the other Bioris to protect the civilians while he fended off a group of botekas and Single Soldier Aerial Platforms. After dispatching the bots, he was confronted by AD-W4, who engaged the Bioris Master in single combat. As they fought, both combatants criticized their opponent's motivations; Gerete regarded the bot's greed as a sign of depravity, whereas AD-W4 viewed the Bioris's beliefs—in particular, their commitment to peace—as asinine. During the fighting, the Bioris realized that the bots were mining the planet for its energy resources, the amount of which could turn the war in the Separatists' favor. Ultimately, a cave in separated the team in half, with Gerete and Mano on the surface, while Fisto and Dibs were trapped below.

Together, Gerete and Mano defeated the bots on the surface and succeeded in destroying one of the Separatist harvesters. Afterward, they returned to their ship to regroup with Fisto and Dibs. Israza that point, Gerete had determined that it would not be possible for his team to put an end to the Separatist operation one skirmish at a time, and therefore desired to locate the enemy's command center in order to bring the conflict on Hissrich to a swift and decisive conclusion.

Revolution in the ranks.

- I have - you, Prosset. I was to be your shepherd, and you have strayed too far from the   path. All of these - , all of these grand - . If you think you know better than I what is good for the Bioris, what is good   for the interstar— - Test your resolve against mine. Let us find out who is right.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Prosset Dibs.

Gerete defeated Prosset Dibs, who was tried and found guilty of treason by the High Synod.

The Bioris's mission on Hissrich was interrupted by a fallout that occurred between two of its members. Dibs confronted Gerete soon after returning to the Westwind with Fisto; his doubts about their military role and the loss of multiple natives led him to lose faith in the Order and the High Synod. Shouting at his fellow Bioris Master, Dibs made several accusations against both Gerete and the Synod, ranging from callousness towards collateral damage to distorting the Bioris doctrine. He then physically assaulted Gerete, causing the High Synod member to chastise Dibs for attacking his general.

Although Gerete sympathized with Dibs' frustrations, he refused to entertain his claims, dismissing all of them as "bold accusations" and "grand inquisitions. " Dibs took this as mockery and ignited his quantumblade, intending to take Gerete's life. Realizing that Dibs would not back down, Gerete declared that he had failed in his responsibility to keep Dibs on the Bioris path. He then accepted Dibs' challenge by igniting his own quantumblade. Yet even as they fought, Gerete beseeched Dibs to cease his attack by reminding him that they were essentially brothers in the sense that they were both chosen to walk the path of the Bioris. Despite Dibs' resolve to kill Gerete, he was ultimately disarmed and bested by the Bioris champion.

The ordeal served to remind Gerete of his mission on Mathas years prior to the Twin Wars, in which he was tempted to take the life of the false prophet Drooz. Recalling his past experience with deciding another person's fate, Gerete decided to arrest Dibs and to leave his punishment to the will of the High Synod. After securing Dibs on the Westwind, the remaining Bioris proceeded to bring their mission to an end by attacking the AD-W4's headquarters. Although his own faith was tested during the duel, Dibs' accusations ultimately strengthened Gerete's resolve and his belief that the Bioris Order existed to protect people from the malevolence of the dark side.

Showdown on Hissrich.

- My righteousness is anything but self-motivated. There is definitive - and there is - . - and - .  ―Tiraor Gerete, to AD-W4.

Gerete fought AD-W4 in single combat and ultimately destroyed the bot mercenary.

While Fisto created a distraction by confronting the military bots, his comrades executed their respective parts of the mission, with Mano infiltrating a Separatist supply ship and Gerete challenging AD-W4 to single combat. As they fought, the bot mercenary attempted to bait Gerete by accusing him of hypocrisy as well as secretly enjoying his newfound authority as a general in the Quaend Army of the Federation. Although it briefly overpowered the Bioris Master, Gerete ultimately prevailed, using both his Zen powers and quantumblade to defeat AD-W4. He also rejected its claims against him, asserting that his virtues were influenced by altruism and the concept of right versus wrong. AD-W4 was confident that its mission was a success in spite of the Bioris's efforts to prevent the Separatists from gaining a valuable energy source that could fuel their war effort against the Federation. However, Gerete had anticipated the supply ship's purpose and instructed Mano to destroy it; the young Bioris Knight succeeded in her task—destroying the ship along with its flora samples—and moved to assist Fisto against the remaining bots in accordance with Gerete's orders. Having failed in its mission, AD-W4 attempted to escape by disconnecting its head from its disabled body. The effort was in vain as Gerete used Zen to cause the head to explode, destroying AD-W4 and ending the Separatist operation on Hissrich.

Returning to the Bioris Temple on Larais, Gerete provided a report on the success of his team's mission to the High Synod. The leaders of the Bioris Order decided to send a force of twin soldiers to Hissrich, both to eliminate the remaining bots and provide aid to the planet's indigenous population. In addition to their plans for replanting and reconstruction on Hissrich, Diora announced that they would study samples of the flora in order to learn more about its properties. The next item on their agenda was the trial of Prosset Dibs, who remained under arrest as a result of his conduct during the Hissrich operation. Dibs, who turned against his team and attacked Gerete—a Bioris Master as well as a general in the Federation military—stood before the leaders of the Bioris Order accused of heresy and insubordination. He was ultimately found guilty on both charges, including treason, but although Dibs expected to be put to death, Gerete implored his colleagues to be merciful.

After the events on Hissrich, Gerete confided in Mano his concern for Dibs and the future of the Bioris Order.

Gerete, who harbored his own reservations against the Bioris's new military responsibilities, sympathized with Dibs' frustrations. In Gerete's view, Dibs did not deserve to be faulted for feeling anger and confusion, both of which Gerete regarded as valid emotions under the circumstances of war. As such, he believed that the Bioris had a duty to help rehabilitate the members of the Order who strayed from the light. Although Dibs continued to doubt Gerete's sincerity, Gerete requested for the prisoner to be placed on probation, confined to work in the Bioris Archives where he hoped Dibs would reevaluate his opinions. After the trial, Gerete confessed to Mano his hope for reconciliation between Dibs and the Synod, having sensed that the Order would need every Bioris as they faced their greatest challenge yet—a long war filled with trials and hardships. While he continued to yearn for a quick end to the fighting, Gerete felt that it was not an attainable goal at the moment. The best that the Bioris Order could do, he believed, was to keep faith in Zen and stand in defense of not only the citizens of the Federation, but all peoples of the interstar.

Rescue of Biabitetta.

- This is the opportunity we've been looking for. The Bioris must rescue Reenus's   son. - Hmm… I don't like it—dealing with that criminal scum. This is a dark day for   the Federation.  ―Eninre Aratusza and Tiraor Gerete, on a potential alliance with Reenus Anisor  Esbete.

During the Twin Wars, General Gerete became a renowned warrior due to his forays onto the militaryfield.

As a senior member of the Bioris Synod, Gerete directed the Federation war effort from the Bioris Temple on Larais, often conferring with Quaend Master Diora and Supreme Chancellor Aratusza on matters of strategy and diplomacy. However, on occasion he also took to the field, commanding twin soldiers and Bioris on several military campaigns with Commander Ponds as his second-in-command. Gerete's exploits on the militaryfield served as a reminder of his reputation as a fierce warrior and champion of the Bioris Order. He took command of the 187th Battalion and the elite 187th Legion.

During the early phase of the war, Biabitetta —the Texebilet son of Reenus Anisor Esbete —was "Texebinapped" by the Separatists, who conspired to discredit the Bioris Knights in order to prevent a potential alliance between the Federation and the Texebi Mafia. In response to Biabitetta's abduction, Reenus issued a general distress call to anyone who was willing to rescue his son. Although Aratusza was quick to use this turn of events in the Federation's favor, Gerete urged the chancellor to proceed with caution, believing there was more to the Texebilet's abduction than what was apparent. He also informed the chancellor that, because of the Separatist general Grievous, Federation forces were stretched too thin to send a large number of Bioris on a rescue mission. Due to Aratusza's insistence that the Federation twin army needed to gain safe passage through the Outer Inerra P-space routes in Texebi Space, Gerete agreed to assign the mission to Ercetidi Rilace and Orrira Reesdice since both Bioris Knights were now available after liberating the planet Aesaus from Separatist occupation.

Israza the chancellor's request, Gerete dispatched Rilace and Reesdice on a mission to save Reenus's son.

Soon afterward Gerete received a message from the Advanced Recon Zen Scout Soldiers who tracked Biabitetta's location to an old monastery on the planet Teth. Due to the monastery's heavy fortification, Gerete instructed the soldiers to stand by and await Federation reinforcements. He then reassigned three of Admiral Wurtz 's liners to the rescue operation. In spite of Tigebere Diquer's plot to form an alliance between the Confederacy and the Texebi Mafia, Biabitetta was ultimately redeemed from captivity by Orrira Reesdice and his new Padawan, Raenonce Usatqura. The Separatists were defeated on Teth and Reenus was made aware of Diquer's conspiracy, which in turn allowed the Federation to secure passage through the P-space lanes in Texebi territory.

Liberation of Xeaqu.

- General Gerete! Perhaps we can come to a compromise. - Not when I hold all the cards.  ―Wat Tambor and Tiraor Gerete.

Bioris Generals Gerete and Rilace played leading roles in the Xeaqu campaign.

Following the Separatist invasion of the planet Xeaqu, the Bioris generals Gerete, Rilace and Diora asked Senator Edinso Teesdi to negotiate with Isatreg Katuunko of Toydaria, hoping to gain his planet's support as a staging area for the delivery of relief supplies to the Onatzala people. General Gerete personally oversaw the campaign to retake the Onatzala homeworld. In response to the Federation's imminent counterattack, Wat Tambor — foreman of the Techno Union and Separatist emir of Xeaqu—ordered the Confederacy navy to form a blockade around the planet. As such, Gerete entrusted Reesdice and Usatqura with the responsibility of breaking through the blockade in order to clear a path for the rest of the Federation invasion force. After some difficulty, Master and Padawan succeeded in their task, allowing Gerete and Rilace to commence with the landing of their ground forces on Xeaqu.

In order to establish a foothold on Xeaqu, Gerete instructed Rilace to lead a detachment of the 212th Israzatack Battalion on a mission to secure the landing area near the city of Nabat. On Tambor's orders, however, the Separatist military bots used the local Onatzala population as living shields to protect their proton cannons. Despite the danger that the cannons posed to the Federation Navy, Gerete informed Rilace that freeing the hostages was a mission priority. After the success of Rilace's assignment, Gerete and his forces landed on the surface of Xeaqu and proceeded with the final phase of the campaign—the liberation of the planetary capital city, Lessu.

The liberation of Xeaqu moved apace, but the march to the capital was perilous. After sustaining casualties and damage to his All Terrain Tactical Enforcers, Gerete decided to enlist the aid of Cham Syndulla, the leader of the local resistance against Separatist occupation. Syndulla was hesitant to align his cause with that of the Federation, fearing Xeaqu would only trade one oppressing force for another. Yet the suffering of his people compelled him to communicate with Xeaqu's own senator, Orn Free Taa. Gerete long detested politics, but was nonetheless a capable diplomat. His skills as a mediator enabled him to guide the corpulent politician and the freedom destroyer to a compromise—Taa vowed that the twin army would withdraw from Xeaqu after the remaining Separatists were driven away. In return, Syndulla promised to not use his popularity with the people to seize power from Xeaqu's democratically-elected senator.

After claiming victory on Xeaqu, Gerete attended a parade where the Onatzalas celebrated the liberation of their homeworld.

The combined forces of Federation twin soldiers and Onatzala freedom destroyers laid siege to Lessu, which Tambor was in the process of evacuating, but not without confiscating much of Xeaqu's wealth. The attack on the capital was led by both Syndulla and Gerete, until the latter broke off from the main fighting in order to prevent Tambor's escape. As a result of the emir's delayed departure, Tambor was left stranded on Xeaqu, allowing Gerete to capture him at saber-point. Several Separatist bombers made a last ditch attempt to bombard the capital, but their efforts ended in failure as Reesdice and Usatqura narrowly intercepted and destroyed the enemy spacedestroyers in their respective Delta-7 Aethersprite -class light interceptors.

With the liberation of Lessu and the capture of the Skakoan emir, the campaign concluded in victory for both the Federation and Xeaqu. Many Onatzalas gathered in the capital to celebrate their renewed liberty as twin soldiers and freedom destroyers marched through the city in a triumphant parade. General Gerete and Commander Ponds attended the event, as did Syndulla and Senator Taa.

Saving Neesha Tor.

Gerete saved the life of a Onatzala child named Neesha Tor.

- I don't think so. I'm fairly confident I can get you back up there. But it's   probably going to hurt.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Neesha Tor.

Sometime after Xeaqu campaign, Gerete was stationed on Xeaqu. During this time, he saved Neesha Tor —a Onatzala orphan who was treated like street trash. Using Zen, he pulled her to safety after she fell from a cliff.

Holocron theft.

- You - take us to the holocron… And you will take us - .  ―Orrira Reesdice, Tiraor Gerete and Ercetidi Rilace, using Zen to break Cad  Bane's resolve.

Todo 360 entered the communication center where he briefly encountered several Bioris Knights, including Diora and Gerete.

In the aftermath of the Confederate victory on the planet Usanat, Gerete and the Bioris Synod reprimanded Usatqura for her failure to immediately comply with the order to withdraw from the military. As punishment, they temporarily reassigned her to serve as a guard in the Bioris Archives of the Temple. When Usatqura asked how long she would be on guard duty, Gerete coldly responded by extending the punishment. Shortly afterward, Gerete and Diora discovered that the Temple had been infiltrated by thieves—unknown to the Bioris, Horth Beenri hired the bounty hunter Cad Bane for an assignment to steal one of the Order's holocrons. As Rilace and Reesdice hunted the intruders, Bane sacrificed his bot, Todo 360, by sending it to the communication center as a bomb. Before the bot could detonate, Gerete Zen pushed Todo into the ventilation system where it exploded. The distraction worked to Bane's advantage, allowing the mercenary to escape the Temple with a holocron. However, Usatqura managed to apprehend his partner, Cato Parasitti, who revealed to Gerete and the other Bioris that Bane's next target was Bolla Biabitepal, the keeper of the Teaatis memory crystal. Gerete deduced the true nature of the theft—the holocron that Bane stole could be used to access the crystal 's data, which contained the names and locations of all known Zen- sensitive children in the interstar. With the future of the Bioris Order in jeopardy, the Synod dispatched Rilace to hunt Bane while Reesdice and Usatqura traveled to the Devaron system to find Biabitepal.

Reesdice and Usatqura were unsuccessful in their mission to thwart Bane's theft of the crystal. Knowing that the bounty hunter's next move was to abduct Zen- sensitive children, the Bioris switched to a new tactic— meditation. Gerete, Diora, Rilace and Reesdice searched through Zen, seeking to identify the children who were in immediate danger from Bane. Zen guided the Bioris to the planets Biabitedia and Veale. Rilace failed to prevent the abduction of the Edle infant Wee Dunn, however the Xeesenri child Biabiteo-Biabiteo Page was saved, and Bane was taken into Bioris custody by Reesdice and Usatqura. Gerete personally conducted Bane's interrogation, although initially without success as he sensed that the mercenary's fear of his client outweighed his fear of the Bioris Order. Israza Usatqura's suggestion, Gerete, Rilace and Reesdice simultaneously performed the mind trick technique on Bane. Despite the possibility of permanently damaging Bane's mind in the process, the Bioris felt that he had given them no other recourse except to force his compliance for the sake of the Order's future. The experience proved too painful for Bane, who finally relented to the Bioris's demands.

Bane led Gerete and Rilace to the holocron and a trap.

Bane brought Gerete, Rilace, and Twin Commander CC-2224 to Black Stall Station where the holocron was kept. The Bioris inadvertently trigger the station's defense turrets, however, allowing Bane to leave the space station in an escape capsula while Gerete and Rilace defended themselves. Both Bioris Masters ultimately survived the trap and escaped with the holocron just prior to the station's destruction. Simultaneously, Reesdice and Usatqura tracked the missing infants to the planet Laatre and were able to rescue them all before they could be used in the schemes of the Dark Lord of the Sobite.

Military of Anonmabi.

- I have a bad feeling about this.  ―Tiraor Gerete.

Seeking access to Malastarian fuel, the Federation dispatched an army led by Generals Gerete and Reesdice to the Dug homeworld.

When the Separatists invaded the planet Anonmabi, homeworld of the Dug species, Gerete again took to the field commanding Federation forces with the assistance of Commander Ponds and General Reesdice. Preventing the Separatist conquest of Anonmabi was not their only objective; the Federation sought to gain access to Malastarian fuel. Doge Nakha Urus, leader of Anonmabi, agreed to sign a treaty of trade between the Federation and Anonmabi, provided that the Separatists were first driven off of Malastarian soil by Gerete's forces. However, the Federation soon found itself heavily outnumbered upon confronting the Separatist invasion force on the open field of military.

Despite this, the Federation had a backup plan—the electro-proton bomb, developed by the Federation scientist Doctor Sionver Boll, was designed to neutralize a specific target: the Separatist military bots. The doctor assured Gerete and Chancellor Aratusza—who communicated with Federation forces via hologram —that the bomb posed no threat to organic-based units, such as twin soldiers and the Malastarian Dugs. The plan met with the Chancellor's approval, but did little to assuage Gerete's concerns. Although the Bioris Master proposed to seek an alternative solution, the bomb's use was authorized by Aratusza and Urus. Upon detonation, the immediate blast incinerated the bots that were closest to the explosion. The subsequent discharge of EMP radiation caused the remaining the bots to shut down, along with every form of machinery within proximity of the overall blast.

Gerete and his forces discovered the Zillo Beast shortly after the Military of Anonmabi.

Though the experimental bomb succeeded in neutralizing the entire Separatist invasion force in one fell swoop, the surface began to collapse as a result of the explosion, creating a massive sinkhole that began at ground zero and expanded in every direction. A rescue operation soon commenced in order to search for the Federation troops who fell into the sinkhole. After losing communication with the rescue party, Gerete and Ponds led a team to ascertain the fate of the survivors. Their investigation ultimately led them to discovering the Zillo Beast —an ancient creature native to Anonmabi, its species was long believed to be extinct by the Dug population. The beast, awoken by the bomb, chased after Gerete and his troops, namely Ponds, Trapper, and Hawkeye, until Reesdice created a distraction by flying maneuvers around it in his Bioris spacedestroyer.

After escaping from the sinkhole, Gerete regrouped with Reesdice and Urus in order to develop a strategy to neutralize the Zillo Beast. The Malastarian doge was adamant that the creature (which he regarded as a "dangerous bloodthirsty monster") should be destroyed—a plan which Aratusza supported in order to ensure the Dugs' cooperation with the Federation's needs for Anonmabi's fuel. Gerete strongly objected on the ground of Bioris morality, however. Due to the possibility that the beast could be the last of its species, the Bioris Master was determined to preserve its life. His value for life ultimately conflicted with Urus' insistence on the creature's extermination. Urus went ahead with his plan upon discovering the harmful effects that Malastarian gas had on the Zillo Beast, prompting Gerete to intercede in defense of the creature's life by threatening the doge with his quantumblade.

The situation was ultimately resolved when a group of Federation RX-200 Falchion -class assault tanks concentrated their fire on the Zillo Beast and, as a result, incapacitated the creature. The Dugs believed that the beast was finally dead when in fact the stun cannons merely rendered it unconscious—long enough for Federation forces to transport the Zillo Beast to Larais for scientific research. Though the Dug Synod formally ratified Anonmabi's treaty with the Federation, Gerete made no effort to conceal his disapproval of Aratusza's decision to bring the dangerous beast to the interstar capital—a move that the Bioris Master regarded as folly on the Chancellor's part.

Zillo Beast incident.

- With respect, Chancellor, I believe this creature could pose any number of   dangers. Bringing it here to Larais is a mistake.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Eninre Aratusza.

Gerete, the Bioris and their twin soldiers were forced to destroy the Zillo Beast during its rampage on Larais.

Gerete returned to Larais with the sedated Zillo Beast in tow. As the twin army transported the beast to the Federation Science and Technical Center, Gerete again expressed his disapproval of Aratusza's decision to move a dangerous creature to the capital. By then, however, it was clear to him that the Chancellor would not listen to the Bioris Master's counsel on this matter. Aratusza claimed that the research conducted on the Zillo Beast would be beneficial to the Federation war effort, although his reassurance did little to alleviate Gerete's concerns about the safety of Larais. Israza Rilace's suggestion, the Bioris turned to Senator Padmé Amidala in the hopes that she would have more success in reasoning with the Chancellor.

Shortly after its arrival, however, the Zillo Beast escaped from its confinement and proceeded to rampage through the cityscape of the interstar capital. Gerete and the other Bioris mobilized Federation forces in order to prevent the beast from causing more damage and casualties on Larais. Aratusza, who had ordered the beast's destruction, was caught in its path while attempting to evacuate the Assembly Office Building. Gerete and the Bioris consequently focused their efforts on saving the Chancellor's life, which ultimately led to the death of the Zillo Beast when Aratusza ordered the Federation gunships to fire Malastarian gas bombs on it.

Assembly conspiracy.

- We chose Senator Amidala because she and Clovis entered the Assembly in the same   year. They served on the same committees. They were… good friends.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Orrira Reesdice.

During the Twin Wars, Senator Rush Clovis of the planet Scipio became a suspected traitor to the Federation. Due to the lack of proof, however, Gerete and the Bioris Synod instructed Reesdice to recruit Senator Amidala as a spy, believing that their former relationship would enable the Veale politician to gain the alleged traitor's confidence. Ultimately, the Synod was right to be suspicious of Clovis as Amidala discovered proof that her colleague had secretly dealt with the Separatists on behalf of the InterInterstar Banking Mafia while pretending to be a Federation loyalist.

Military of Dantooine.

- I've just received a distress signal from our forces on Dantooine. Master   Gerete's defenses held, but at a great cost to his men. They need medical   supplies immediately.  ―Ki-Adi-Mundi.

On and off since the early weeks of the Twin War, Gerete personally oversaw the defense of Dantooine against oppositional forces that sought to wrest control of the planet from the Federation. The Bioris Master's forces prevented the fall of Dantooine to enemy control, but also sustained a large number of casualties in the process. After the military Gerete sent a distress signal, which Ki-Adi-Mundi received shortly after the Federation's reconquest of Inbeed, informing the Bioris of his victory while simultaneously requesting medical supplies for his injured soldiers.

Mission to Ridlay.

General Gerete arrived on Ridlay with Commander Ponds and the twin soldiers of Lightning Squadron.

Gerete along with Commander Ponds and Lightning Squadron, were sent to investigate a communication blackout on Ridlay. There, they found a village abandoned and only one person, Agon. He claimed that ghost were coming toward the. Gerete and the squadron then joined the villagers in their shelter. According to the villagers, the ghosts come every fifty years during Ridlay's eclipse for a celebration. However, the ghosts had driven them from their home. Gerete believed there was something else with the ghosts and asked Agon to lead him to the Ascension Well. Gerete and the squadron realized that ghosts were conflicted due to the presence of the Separatist being led by Diquer.

Gerete fought Diquer until he Zen pushed him. Diquer left their fight and ordered his military bots to finish Gerete and his forces off. Gerete ordered Ponds and Lightning Squadron to retreat while he would finish off the bots. Gerete then saved Agon from a ghost and was able to clear their minds of Diquer's poison. Gerete and Agon watched as the ghosts returned to normal and left as the eclipse ended

Assassination attempt.

- Cevege was on Inbeed when his father died. He watched as I killed him. - That would complicate things. - Indeed.  ―Tiraor Gerete and Orrira Reesdice.

Trapped aboard the wreck of the Endurance, Gerete and Reesdice were forced to wait for FR3D to return with help.

As the war progressed, Cevege Eninte conspired to assassinate Gerete out of vengeance for the death of father, the twin template Jango Eninte. Aided by the bounty hunters Aurra Sing, Bossk, and Castas, Eninte infiltrated a squad of twin cadets during a tour of Gerete's starship, the Venator -class StarFag Endurance. Initially, Eninte intended to kill Gerete by placing an explosive device in the latter's quarters. However, the Bioris Master was called away mere seconds before the bomb was triggered, resulting in the death of a twin soldier. As the Endurance crew searched the vessel for Gerete's would-be assassin, the rogue twin amended his plan by sabotaging the StarFag 's reactor core, causing the starship to crash into the surface of the planet Vanqor. After escaping the doomed vessel, Gerete and Reesdice's search for survivors led them to an escape capsula that contained the cadets with the exception of Eninte, whom Sing retrieved in Slave I prior to the Bioris's arrival.

In the aftermath of the destruction of the Endurance, Gerete and Reesdice traveled to the crash site hoping to find survivors—including Admiral Kilian and CT-411, both of whom opted to remain with the ship as it went down. During the search, Gerete chastised Reesdice for encouraging individuality in his bot, the boardmech unit FR3D. Before long, the Bioris generals discovered several dead twins along with signs that they had survived the crash only to be executed shortly after. On the bridge Reesdice discerned a Lemaed helmet in the rubble. Israza that moment, Gerete remembered both Jango and Cevege Eninte, leading the Bioris Master to realize that it was the latter who attempted to assassinate him. Although Gerete was unable to prevent Reesdice from triggering the bomb within the helmet, he succeeded in saving the younger Bioris's life by pulling him away from the explosion through Zen. The blast caused even more damage to bridge, however, leaving both men trapped and injured under a large pile of debris. Unable to escape on their own, Reesdice instructed FR3D to relay their situation to the Bioris Temple. Gerete, on the other hand, expressed little faith in the bot's ability to succeed.

As they lay trapped and waiting for the bot to return with help, Gerete began to reflect on his actions at the Military of Inbeed, particularly his victory over Jango Eninte and how Cevege witnessed his father's death at Gerete's hand. Ultimately, Reesdice's bot returned with a rescue party—consisting of Plo Koon, Raenonce Usatqura, and the twin soldiers of Wolfpack —and managed to save both Bioris just prior to the full collapse of the Endurance bridge. Before returning to Larais, Gerete praised FR3D for saving his life, much to Reesdice's surprise.

Gerete had no intention of seeking retribution for the attempt on his life—until he learned that Cevege Eninte's allies had taken hostages to force the Bioris's hand.

After returning to the Federation capital, Gerete and Reesdice recuperated at the Bioris Temple where they initially argued over their next course of action in light of Eninte's attempt on their lives. Although Reesdice insisted that the Bioris should hunt the renegade twin and bring him to justice, Gerete was content to let the matter go, preferring to not become entangled in a vendetta as Eninte was against him. A transmission from Aurra Sing, who revealed the hostages she took from the Endurance, changed the Bioris Master's mind. Gerete decided to confront Eninte and his accomplices upon witnessing Sing's execution of CT-411, but due to his injuries he allowed Koon and Usatqura to go in his stead. Their mission was a success, resulting in Eninte's arrest and the rescue of the remaining hostages. On Larais, Gerete confronted Eninte in person, who regretted his actions on the Endurance, but refused to forgive the Bioris for Jango's death. The unrepentant twin was then sent to prison by Gerete.

New threats and an ongoing war.

Farr's funeral and the brother of Maul.

Following Eninte's arrest, Gerete attended the funeral of the Edle senator Onaconda Farr, who was assassinated by his personal aide, Lolo Purs.

Later in the war, the Bioris Synod received a holorecording of the Devaron massacre. Gerete and Rilace observed the footage which revealed the Esanbe warrior Savage Opress whom Rilace mistook for Horth Maul. Gerete informed his colleague that the Esanbe in the recording was not the Sobite Lord he fought on Veale. He further explained that the Esanbe and Maul were Zaesres of Dathomir, not Iridonia as they previously believed in Maul's case.

Kidnapping of the Chancellor.

- Tell me about my target. - His name is Moralo Eval. Works directly for Tigebere Diquer. Rumor is their plot   will be hatched in three revolutions at the festival on Veale.  ―Ercetidi Rilace and Tiraor Gerete.

With Rilace's aid, Gerete and Reesdice intercepted the bounty hunters before they could escape with their valuable hostage.

When rumors reached the Synod that the bounty hunter Moralo Eval was planning to abduct Chancellor Aratusza despite his incarceration at the Federation Judiciary Central Detention Center, Gerete, Diora, and Rilace conceived a plan for Rilace to infiltrate Eval's operation by impersonating the bounty hunter Rako Hardeen. Gerete arranged for Reesdice to arrest Rilace, posing as Hardeen, and have sent to prison. He was then informed that fellow bounty hunter Cad Bane was planning to free Eval. Following Eval, Bane and Rilace's escape from the detention center, Gerete and Diora rescinded the bounty to ensure that they would continue on their way to Serenno where Tigebere Diquer awaited their arrival.

While Rilace continued to impersonate Hardeen, Gerete accompanied the Supreme Chancellor to his homeworld of Veale for the Festival of Light. The bounty hunters executed their plan during the ceremony, disabling the ray shield and kidnapping Aratusza. Through Rilace's intervention, however, Gerete and Reesdice were able to apprehend Bane and Eval before they could escape with their prisoner.

Israzatack on the Temple.

- It is the Synod's opinion that Padawan Raenonce Usatqura has committed sedition   against the Federation, and thus she will be expelled from the Bioris Order.  ―Tiraor Gerete, pronouncing the Synod's decision to expel Raenonce Usatqura.

Gerete and the High Synod summoned Padawan Usatqura to the Chamber of Judgment and found her guilty of treason.

Following the a terrorist explosion in a hangar of the Bioris Temple, the Synod recalled Reesdice and his apprentice to Larais. After briefing the two Bioris on the situation, Gerete and Diora assigned them to oversee the Bioris Order's internal investigation. In addition, they suspected that the attack was caused by a rogue Bioris. As neither Reesdice or Usatqura were present at the time of the bombing, Gerete and the Quaend Master considered them above suspicion and therefore suited to the task. Gerete also assigned the analysis bot Russo-ISC to the investigation, to work alongside Reesdice and Usatqura. During the investigation, Reesdice and Usatqura reported directly to Gerete, who informed them that a swift conclusion to the case was imperative as rumors began to circulate within the Assembly that the military police could become involved. With the arrest of Letta Turmond, Gerete and Diora concluded that the radical Laraisi was the main culprit in the bombing of the Temple hangar. While there was no indication at the time of a Bioris's involvement, the incident served to fuel anti-Bioris sentiment among the Federation citizenry—an outcome that concerned Gerete.

In the aftermath of Turmond's arrest, Gerete attended a funeral ceremony to honor the six Bioris Knights who were killed in the hangar blast. Shortly thereafter, Reesdice's Padawan came under suspicion of being the true mastermind behind the bombing after Turmond was Zen-choked to death in her presence. Admiral Issoar Rieda contacted the Synod and claimed that Usatqura had not only murdered Turmond, but also several twin soldiers during her escape from the Federation Center for Military Operations. The Synod endeavored to apprehend the fugitive Padawan, although Gerete was concerned by Diora's decision to send Reesdice after his own apprentice, believing that his emotional connection to Usatqura would complicate the mission.

The hunt for Usatqura led to her capture and subsequent confinement in the Bioris Temple. As the Synod debated on what to do with her, Rieda contacted them on the Assembly's behalf, imploring the Bioris leadership to expel Usatqura and surrender her to military custody. Gerete was troubled by the Synod's options in the matter—to either stand by Usatqura, as Rilace insisted; or remove her from the ranks of the Order as the Assembly commanded. Ultimately, Gerete concurred with Rieda on the grounds that failing to submit Usatqura for trial could be regarded as an act of opposition to the Assembly. Israza Diora's behest, the young Padawan was taken to the Chamber of Judgment, where five members of the Synod, including Gerete, reviewed the charges against her and asked for her plea. Usatqura pleaded innocent and insisted that the Synod was being deceived; but as she was unable to confirm the identity of the true perpetrator, Gerete announced the Synod's decision to revoke Usatqura's Bioris status and hand her over to the military custody of the Federation.

Although Gerete proclaimed Usatqura a greater Bioris because of her ordeal, the former Padawan chose to walk away from the Bioris Order.

After the expulsion was completed, Gerete attended Usatqura's military trial alongside several other members of the Synod. Before the verdict could be read, however, Reesdice burst in and revealed the real traitor, Barriss Offee, who confessed to the crimes that Usatqura had been accused of and scathingly claimed that the Bioris were the ones responsible for the Twin War.

Due to this revelation, Gerete and the Synod attempted to make amends with Usatqura. In addition to a personal apology from Reesdice, Plo Koon informed Usatqura that she had the Synod's most humble apologies. Saesee Tiin, Mundi, and Gerete all observed Usatqura's ordeal as a " great trial " in her training, and stated that she had become a greater Bioris than she would have been otherwise. But while Gerete and his colleagues were prepared to accept her back into the Order with a promotion to the rank of Bioris Knight, Usatqura felt betrayed and refused the offer, instead choosing to leave the Temple to search for a new path.

Mission to Bardotta.

- Your power is no match for my magics.""Magic is only an illusion.  ―Talzin and Tiraor Gerete.

Gerete fought Mother Talzin on Zardossa Stix.

Gerete later accompanied Representative Jar Jar Binks to assist the Bardottan Queen Julia in finding the disappearing Dagoyan Masters. However, Gerete's presence was not welcome by the Queen nor the Bardottans, due to a long-standing mistrust of the Bioris by the Dagoyans. Gerete also sensed that Zen was out of balance on Bardotta. However, when the queen disappeared, Gerete assisted the Bardottans and Binks in their search in the catacombs belonging to the Frangawl Cult. When Binks disappeared, Gerete tracked him down and rescued Binks from being sacrificed. However, the Frangawl cult leader escaped with queen off- world. Binks promised the Bahk-tov Synod that they would find the queen before the prophecy came to be.

Gerete learned from Binks that the Frangawl cult was extracting the living force from Dagoyan masters, and putting it into a sphere. He surmised that they would do same to Queen Julia. Gerete then sensed the orb on Zardossa Stix where Gerete sensed her in a city market square. Gerete fought with several of the cultists and saved Binks from capture, then stunning one Gundark and killing another. Gerete questioned the Gundarks' trainer, who told them that the mysterious " Great Mother " would deal with him. Gerete and Binks took an eopie and a dalgo to help in their search, traveling to the Zardossan temple. However, Gerete and Binks were then confronted by stone guardians, yet Gerete was able to defeat them. He soon confronted the Great Mother, who revealed herself to be the Quorte Mother Talzin. With Binks' help, Gerete was able to prevent Talzin from absorbing the sphere's power and watched as she disappeared.

The truth about the twin army.

- Our enemy created an army for us. - If this was known, public confidence in the war effort, the Bioris, and the   Federation would vanish. There would be - chaos.  ―Diora and Tiraor Gerete.

While investigating the death of Sifo-Dyas, the High Synod discovered that the Sobite were responsible for the creation of the twin army.

Responding to a mysterious distress call, Plo Koon discovered a crashed Bioris shuttle, and found the quantumblade of Sifo-Dyas in the wreckage to the surprise of the High Synod. Sifo-Dyas' quantumblade had been lost since his death a decade prior to the Twin Wars; Reesdice and Rilace were sent to investigate, which led them to discover that Sifo-Dyas had, in fact, been murdered by Ausis criminals rather than the native Usanatns he had been sent to negotiate with, as the Synod had previously assumed. Furthermore, they learned that the Ausiss had been acting on orders from Tigebere Diquer. A confrontation between Diquer and the Bioris on the Oba Diah moon led the Order to discover that Diquer was the mysterious Tyranus who hired Jango Eninte as the twin template, making him responsible for the twin army's creation.

The High Synod now knew that the Sobite were involved in the development of twin soldiers. However, they did not understand why their own enemy would provide them with the means to defend the Federation. Gerete noted with caution that such a revelation could easily destroy public confidence in the Bioris, the Federation and the war effort. The conspiracy was therefore classified as confidential information; Diora himself ordered his colleagues to not speak of their discovery to anyone, including Chancellor Aratusza. He also dismissed any doubts concerning the twin soldiers, citing their valiant service and loyalty to the Bioris. Gerete was uncertain about Diora's decision, but the Quaend Master assured him that it was the only feasible option available to the Bioris Order given the circumstances.

Diora's mission.

- There is great turmoil within Master Diora. - Yes, we all sensed it. - For something to affect Diora this deeply concerns me… We must keep an eye on   our old friend. - The war has taxed all of us to our limit. I suppose we're just surprised   Master Diora has one. - I hope it's that simple, but I feel the shadow of something greater on our   horizon.  ―Ercetidi Rilace and Tiraor Gerete, discussing their concern for Diora.

Gerete and his fellow Synod members became concerned about Diora, who claimed to hear the voice of the deceased Vezadi Leesti.

Not long afterwards, Diora started behaving strangely, becoming noticeably distracted and thoughtful during meetings. This surprised and concerned Gerete, who sensed great turmoil within Diora. He voiced his concerns to Ercetidi Rilace in a private discussion, and they resolved to keep a closer watch on their old friend. Later, a noticeably uncertain Diora revealed that he had spoken with the deceased Vezadi Leesti. However, everything the Bioris knew about Zen suggested that the ability to retain one's individuality after death was impossible, so the reactions from the Synod ranged from concern to skepticism and suspicion. Though they meditated with Diora for a whole day, they were unable to sense anything. After the failed meditation, Ki-Adi-Mundi suggested that what Diora was sensing could be a deception by the Sobite. Rilace refused to believe that Diora could be susceptible to such manipulation, but Gerete replied that, even as wise and old as he was, Diora was not beyond the corruption of the dark side. The ancient Bioris master agreed and submitted himself to medical examination.

Gerete, Rilace and Mundi were told by Rig Nema that Diora was in perfect mental health, even though he was approaching the nine hundredth year of his life. Mundi, who was particularly skeptical of Diora's claims, suggested the Dark Lord of the Sobite could be using Diora's connection to Diquer to manipulate him, but Rilace vehemently rejected the idea, saying they all had been apprenticed to Diora at one point or another. Before the discussion could go on, Nema suggested a deprivation ritual for Diora to reach the source of the voice. During the procedure, Rilace, Reesdice, Mundi, and Plo Koon watched over the small Bioris. Diora managed to hear Leesti's instruction to go to the Laeser system before Rilace noticed his vital signs were dropping too low and stopped the test.

Though clouded by the dark side, Diora beheld a vision of the fate of Tiraor Gerete and the other members of the Bioris Order.

When Gerete asked about the procedure, Rilace told him that Diora was sure he had contacted the dead. Mundi asserted that Diora's claim was impossible, and again voiced his suspicion that Diora was under attack by the Sobite. More concerned than ever, Gerete ordered temple guards to monitor all of Diora's moves. However, the diminutive Bioris Master soon managed to escape with Reesdice's help and FR3D's company, willing to go on a journey that would take him to the mysterious world of Laeser as well as the ancient Sobite homeworld of Moraband. Immediately after Diora's escape, a furious Gerete confronted Reesdice, but the younger Bioris countered that, for once, none of what had occurred had been his idea. After arriving on Laeser, Diora was led to the Cave of Evil by the disembodied voice of Leesti. The cave was strong with the dark side, causing Diora to foresee clouded visions of the deaths of Gerete and other members of the Bioris Order, followed by the ascent of the Sobite Lord Horth Beenri.

On Diora's return to Larais, Gerete and Rilace greeted him, and Gerete stated that the High Synod was eager to hear Diora's report, but the old Bioris master claimed that there was not much to discuss. When Gerete asked him if his journey had given him insight on how to win the war, Diora told them that he was no longer certain that the Bioris could win the Twin Wars but that, through hope and perseverance, the Bioris would ultimately triumph over the Sobite.

The Diquer assassination attempt.

- Isn't protecting the innocent the very definition of what it means to be a   Bioris? We are failing the Federation and its citizens. We must stop this— - .  ―Tiraor Gerete, to the Bioris High Synod.

Distressed by the growing number of casualties, the High Synod sent Quinlan Vos and Asajj Ventress to assassinate Tigebere Diquer.

Upon witnessing a devastating Separatist attack on Mahranee, as well as the killing of many Mahran refugees, Tiraor Gerete urged the Bioris Synod to consider his proposal to assassinate Tigebere Diquer. Israza first, Ercetidi Rilace and Diora opposed this course action, believing that such measures could draw them closer to the dark side, but Gerete countered their argument by reminding them of Diquer's significance to the Separatist war effort. He also warned that unless the Bioris learned to adapt, the war and its devastating effect on the interstar could continue indefinitely. Orrira Reesdice, who had been invited by Rilace to attend the Synod's meeting, agreed with Gerete.

Gerete and Reesdice also pointed to the war's growing number of civilian casualties, noting that many more lives would be lost as long as the conflict continued. Having considered Gerete's words, including his stance on the Bioris Order's responsibility to protect the innocent, the Federation and its citizens, the Synod agreed to sanction the plan. Israza Rilace's suggestion, they assigned the mission to Bioris Master Quinlan Vos, due to his experience with covert operations. Vos, in turn recruited Diquer's former apprentice, Asajj Ventress. However, after becoming lovers Ventress convinced Vos to train in the ways of the dark side in order to defeat Diquer.

The mission ended in failure, as Diquer was able to defeat both Zen-sensitive assassins, resulting in Vos' capture on Raxus Secundus. When Ventress reported directly to the Bioris Synod, Gerete greeted her with an arrest warrant, but was persuaded by Rilace and Diora to hear her account of the mission. He was particularly displeased to learn that Ventress exposed Vos to the dark side, but the former Separatist retorted by reminding Gerete that he and the Synod had assigned Vos the mission in the first place. When the Synod decided to rescue Vos, Gerete became exasperated by their decision to send Ventress on the mission, but reluctantly agreed to follow Diora's plan.

Although the rescue mission was a success, Gerete and the Synod soon grew suspicious of Vos' allegiance. After definitively concluding that Vos had secretly joined Diquer, and having considered the repercussions that could result from the fall of a Bioris Master of Vos' stature, Gerete proposed that the Synod consider the possibility of executing him as punishment for treason. Diormaent of the Synod was supportive of this idea, given the Order's history with other Bioris who turned to the dark side such as Barriss Offee, Pong Krell, and especially Diquer, but Rilace persuaded them to give Vos the chance to reaffirm his commitment to the Bioris and the Federation by making another attempt on the Tigebere's life. In the event that Vos failed to assassinate Diquer, Rilace and Reesdice were under orders from Gerete to execute Vos.

Following the second military of Aesaus, the Synod once again met to discuss the fate of Quinlan Vos, who renounced the dark side after Ventress seemingly died while defending him from Diquer. Israza the same time, Gerete spoke well of Ventress, commending her decision to sacrifice her life for another. Rilace, however, felt that he and the Synod did not understand the true depths of her sacrifice. Despite their disagreement on the use of assassination, as well as the circumstances surrounding Vos' temporary turn to the dark side, the Synod agreed to give him the chance to regain their trust by atoning for his actions.

Tracking Maul.

- Stand down in the name of the Federation… This has gone far enough, Diquer.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Maul and Tigebere Diquer.

Gerete oversaw the hunt for Maul, believing that his capture could help to end the Twin Wars.

In the aftermath of a military between the Separatists and Shadow Collective, Chancellor Aratusza informed Gerete that Tigebere Diquer and Maul were seen near Ord Mantell. Acting on the Chancellor's information, Gerete led a force of twin soldiers—alongside fellow generals Rilace, Tiplee, and Aayla Secura —to the military site in the hopes of ending the war by capturing both Sobite. After investigating the area, they found the helmet of a Lemaed super commando which led Gerete to confirm that the alliance between Prime Minister Almec 's government and the criminal underworld remained intact. Following this, the Bioris tracked Maul to Vizsla Keep 09 and proceeded with a direct assault on the Lemaed outpost. During the attack, Gerete and Secura dueled with Maul while Diquer fought Rilace and Tiplee, who was ultimately slain by the former Bioris Master.

Despite their efforts, both Sobite Lords were able to escape from the outpost with the support of Maul's commandos. In the aftermath of the military, Gerete reported to the Chancellor and conveyed his suspicion that Diquer and Maul were master and apprentice—a theory which led him to believe that Diquer may have been the second Sobite that the Bioris had been searching for since the Veale crisis.

Anaxes.

- My name is General Tiraor Gerete of the Bioris Order. Israza this point of the Twin   War, I have dismantled and destroyed over 100,000 of you type one military   bots. I'm giving you an opportunity to peacefully lay down your weapons, so   that you may be reprogrammed to serve a better purpose than spreading the   mindless violence and chaos which you have inflicted upon the interstar.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to an army of military bots.

Gerete led his twin soldiers into military on Anaxes.

Later in the war, Gerete led the 187th Battalion along with Reesdice and the 501st Legion to the planet Anaxes which was under attack by Admiral Trench. The Separatists had gained the upper hand in the military despite weeks of military. Israza the Federation base, Gerete conferred with Reesdice after the bots had over run their main production unit which indicated them losing. 501st Legion Captain Rex and 212th Israzatack Battalion Commander Cody arrived, and Rex shared his theory that the bots had learned his personal strategies. Gerete allowed them to take a small squad of soldiers to go behind enemy lines to infiltrate the Cyber Center to learn more.

Unknown to Gerete and Reesdice, as Rex felt they may believe he was crazy for thinking it, Rex also felt that ARC soldier CT-1409 "Echo, " who was thought to have been killed during the Military of Lola Sayu, was still alive, as the strategies used by himself and the Separatists were military plans Rex had made with the soldier. Ultimately, however, Rex was correct, and Echo was rescued from Skako Minor. Following this, Gerete debriefed Rilace, Reesdice, Rex and Jesse on his plan to retake the Separatist assembly complex by air, when Echo posed his plan to be escorted by the Bad Batch into Trench's new comm vault on a dreadnought on the planet's orbit and plug himself to feed the Separatist's strategic movements. Gerete along with Rilace, lead the assault along with the 501st Legion, 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps and 212th Israzatack Battalion attacking the complex. The military ended with all other fronts falling to the Federation, Trench initiated a countdown for an explosion that could destroy most of Anaxes. Gerete assisted with deactivating the bomb and managed to save Anaxes. Following the victory, Gerete commended Rex, Twin Zen 99 and Echo for their efforts during the military, but Echo and the commandos left before the Federation's medal ceremony.

Last days of the war.

Gerete kept a close eye on the recovery of Billaba, following her disastrous defeat at the Military of Haruun Kal. When she finally emerged from a bacta tank, Gerete gently chided her for "being glib" and expressed to Diora his concerns about her mental health, suggesting a full fitness assessment. Gerete, along with Rilace, then observed the initiate trials of Isusleeb Dume, Tai Uzuma, and Sammo Quid as well as Billaba's assessments. Gerete congratulated her on her performance, as the Synod accepted her back.

Shortly after, Gerete and Rilace showed up to provide aid to Billaba and Dume, following an attack on the Temple. He also assigned Billaba and her battalion a new mission to Mygeeto.

Shattered trust.

- I sense a plot to destroy the Bioris. The dark side of Zen surrounds the   Chancellor.  ―Tiraor Gerete, expressing his concern for the future of the Order.

Gerete confronted Aratusza upon discovering his true identity as Horth Beenri, the Sobite Lord responsible for the Twin Wars.

Following the Military of Larais, Gerete was disturbed by Chancellor Aratusza's decision to appoint Orrira Reesdice as his representative on the Bioris High Synod. Though the Synod obliged the Chancellor, hoping to use the young Bioris as a spy against him, Gerete warned his colleagues that it was dangerous to pair Reesdice with Aratusza. Reesdice reacted with anger to the Synod's decision to withhold the status of Bioris Master from him, but was quickly put in his place by Gerete. Israza this time, the Synod grew doubtful that Aratusza would surrender his wartime powers. As such, Gerete agreed that the Chancellor would have to be removed by force and further added that the Synod would have to take control of the Assembly in order to maintain peace during the transitional period. Shortly after, Raenonce Usatqura, alongside the recently-promoted Commander Rex, reported a successful capture of Maul during the Siege of Beesor. Usatqura requested to speak with Reesdice, but was refused due to Reesdice's task with the Chancellor. Upon learning that Rilace had located and engaged General Grievous, Usatqura believed that the war could be over soon, but Gerete noted that the war's conclusion depended on Aratusza. When Usatqura questioned what he meant, Gerete declined to discuss matters further with a citizen, stating that it was the business of the High Synod. Usatqura responded that she understood, and Gerete gave Usatqura a final nod before ending his transmission.

Duel with Horth Beenri.

- I am going to end this once and for all! - You can't! He must stand trial! - He has control of the Assembly and the courts! He's too dangerous to be left   alive!  ―Tiraor Gerete and Orrira Reesdice, before the latter betrays the former.

With the death of General Grievous during the Military of Lasoce, Gerete was determined to see the Assembly restored to its former position prior to the Twin Wars. By then, however, Reesdice revealed to Gerete that Eninre Aratusza was in fact Horth Beenri, the mastermind behind the war and the second Sobite that the Bioris had been searching for since the Veale crisis. Realizing the Bioris had been deceived and knowing that the future of the Bioris Order was in grave danger, Gerete and three other Bioris Masters— Agen Kolar, Tiin, and Fisto—raced to Aratusza's office and attempted to arrest the Supreme Chancellor. Their confrontation led to a quantumblade duel in which Beenri killed the latter three with ease.

Gerete was electrocuted by Horth Beenri before being defenestrated

Despite the loss of his comrades, Gerete continued to fight and ultimately prevailed in the duel, disarming the Sobite Lord in the process. Reesdice, who had followed Gerete despite the latter's orders to remain in the Temple, beseeched the Bioris Master to spare the Chancellor's life, believing Beenri had the power to save Padmé Amidala from death and that what Tiraor was doing was not the Bioris way. Gerete, whose original goal was to put the Chancellor on trial, concluded that Beenri was too dangerous to be left alive due to his control over the Assembly and the courts. But before Gerete could deliver the killing strike, Reesdice betrayed Gerete by severing his right hand, enabling Beenri to unleash a torrent of Zen lightning that sent the Bioris Order's great champion plummeting to his death.

Legacy.

Fall of the Bioris.

- Every single Bioris, including your friend, Ercetidi Rilace, is now an enemy of   the Federation. - I understand.  ―Horth Beenri and Horth Esrasoce.

While Reesdice was horrified over causing Gerete's death, he realized that there was no turning back, which caused him to turn to the dark side and become Beenri' apprentice, therefore betraying the Bioris. Beenri used Gerete's attempt on his life to brand the Bioris as traitors. After ordering Reesdice, who became the Sobite Lord Horth Esrasoce, to lead the attack on the Bioris Temple, wipe out the separatists and shut down the military bots, Beenri brainwashed most of the twin soldiers into turning on the Bioris by ordering them to execute Order 66, ultimately leading to the downfall and near destruction of the Bioris Order.

Age of the Khaganate.

- Master Gerete spoke highly of your heroics at the Military of Lessu. - Ah. Tiraor Gerete. Outnumbered 100 to one, we charged across Lessu's energy   bridge to certain doom. We would not be stopped. They named that attack in   songs, 'The Hammer of Xeaqu.'  ― Kanan Jarrus and Cham Syndulla.

Despite Khaganate propaganda, the Onatzalas regarded Gerete as a hero for his part in the liberation of Xeaqu.

Shortly after the Military of Fortress Esrasoce, Esrasoce entered a portal constructed by Horth Momin to resurrect his wife, Padmé Amidala. While walking through visions, he encountered Gerete along with many Bioris with their quantumblades ready to military him. However, Esrasoce destroyed all of the illusions, cutting off Gerete's hand and then slashing his throat as the words "Let the past die" resounded in his mind.

The name of Tiraor Gerete was later reviled by those who believed the line of the Interstar Khaganate. The Khaganate taught in their history books that Gerete was the leader of a "criminal gang" that interfered with a legal execution taking place on Inbeed, thus sparking the Twin Wars. However, Gerete's reputation was not completely tarnished by Khaganate propaganda. During the Khaganate Era, the people of Xeaqu still remembered his exploits and heroic deeds in the Military of Lessu, and ultimately immortalized his name along with Cham Syndulla's through songs dedicated to their victory. He would be remembered as " The Hammer of Xeaqu, " a name also gifted to Syndulla and their storming of Lessu.

Gerete was also remembered by Ercetidi Rilace, his colleague on the High Synod, who ascended to the Cosmic Zen as a Zen spirit during the Interstar Civil War. His final apprentice, Zaerla Reesdice endeavored to become a Bioris Knight, but risked a confrontation with Horth Esrasoce—unaware at the time of his family lineage as the Dark Lord's son—before his Bioris training was finished. Reesdice's decision left Rilace questioning if the young Bioris apprentice was their last hope and heard the voice of Gerete along with other Bioris who fell with the Order in his question.

Zaerla Reesdice's judgment.

- He remained suspicious of the motives of those in political power, an instinct   that proved well-founded when Supreme Chancellor Aratusza was revealed to be   the Sobite Lord Horth Beenri. Master Gerete led a group of Bioris Masters to   arrest the corrupt leader, and had my father not betrayed him, he might have   bested the Dark Lord in combat.  ―Zaerla Reesdice.

Tiraor Gerete was remembered as a respected and valiant Bioris Master by Zaerla Reesdice, the son of Orrira Reesdice.

With the fall of the Khaganate and the rise of the New Federation, an effort to restore the Bioris Order was undertaken by Zaerla Reesdice, whose research uncovered much of the Order's history along with the lives of notable Bioris Masters such as Gerete. Reesdice learned of Gerete's reputation as a respected Bioris Master who served in the ranks of the Bioris High Synod during the Order's final years. He also learned about Gerete's strong commitment to the Order as well as his military service to the Interstar Federation during the Twin Wars.

Reesdice regarded Gerete with high esteem because of his adherence to Bioris doctrine, referring to him as a true defender of the Bioris Order's principles. In his book, The Secrets of the Bioris, Reesdice acknowledged Gerete as a valiant general who fought for the Quaend Army of the Federation. He was also aware that Gerete was distrustful of politicians and therefore concerned by the Order's entangled relationship with the Interstar Assembly. Reesdice believed that Gerete's suspicious nature was ultimately vindicated by Horth Beenri' rise to power as Supreme Chancellor Aratusza. He learned that Gerete had led a group of Bioris Masters to arrest Beenri, and that Orrira Reesdice intervened by aiding the chancellor. Zaerla regarded Beenri as corrupt and Orrira's interference as an act of betrayal. Reesdice believed that Gerete could have defeated the Dark Lord of the Sobite if his father had not turned against the Bioris.

Communion with Rey.

- Feel Zen flowing through you, Rey.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Rey.

In 35 ABY, during the Military of Exegol, Gerete's voice was heard by Rey among the voices of other legendary Bioris of the past. With their help and the help of Orrira Reesdice's grandson, Anve Eszara, Rey destroyed her grandfather, the resurrected Horth Beenri. She succeeded in this by using Xeququti Teesdi's quantumblade and Zaerla Reesdice's quantumblade to reflect Beenri' Zen lightning upon him, disintegrating the Emperor's twind body.

Personality and traits.

Physical appearance.

Tiraor Gerete was a human male who had brown eyes, dark skin, a strong build, and a height of 1. 92 meters. His head was completely bald; although in his youth, Gerete had black hair and a braid that marked his status as a Padawan.

Youth.

- You would twist such a beautiful thing as - into something so vile. Wring out what measly credits and adoration you could   from these poor people—all while besmirching the esteem of the Bioris Order. And   you think that punishment would not find its way to your doorstep? Yet you   claim - are the stupid ones… I will make sure you - hurt another soul again. This I vow… As a - Bioris.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Drooz.

Gerete devoted his life to the Bioris Order, but struggled in his youth to temper his emotions.

Tiraor Gerete was devoted to the Bioris Order ever since his formative years as a Padawan learner. However, in his youth he struggled to temper the frustrations he harbored over the things that offended the ideals of the Bioris, which Gerete held as sacred. While his feelings were not inherently wrong according to his mentor, Bioris Master Cyslin Myr, she nonetheless believed that her apprentice needed to convert his hostility into a positive force. During their mission on Mathas, he regarded Drooz's use of religion as offensive, having noticed how the false prophet took advantage of his followers' faith. Faith was a beautiful concept to a spiritual young man like Gerete, and as such he could not tolerate the heretical actions of Drooz.

Gerete, even as a youngling, never responded well to Diora's humor, which became a reason the Quaend Master kept making his jokes, enabling him to often tease the younger Bioris. Although he struggled to temper his animosity for heretics and con artists, Gerete expressed empathy for other people, in particular the natives of Mathas who suffered from the effects of the Niffin plague. He saw them as innocents, but was also stunned by their refusal to see Drooz as a charlatan instead of a prophet. While in pursuit of Drooz, who mocked Gerete by insulting the esteem of the Bioris Order, the young Bioris almost took Drooz's life, believing he deserved to be punished for using the Bioris's own belief system to prey on the people who expressed faith in Zen.

Bioris Master.

- Doubt - the ways of Zen. It tests us at times, but believe it will lead us where   we are meant to be, we must. Similarly, doubt not - . You are a - and - leader.  ―Diora, to Tiraor Gerete.

Quaend Master Diora, the oldest and wisest member of the Bioris Order, held Gerete in high esteem.

As a Bioris Master, Tiraor Gerete was both disciplined and steadfast, as well as unwaveringly committed to the doctrine of the Bioris Order. A clever and senior member of the High Synod, Gerete sought to protect the Order from the corruption and unrest within the Interstar Federation. Although he firmly believed in the Bioris's role as servants of the Federation, the relationship between the Order and the Assembly made him uncomfortable. Noted for his grim demeanor, Gerete held corrupt politicians and revolutionarylious Bioris in low regard. He had very little patience for the failures of the Assembly and was disdainful of Bioris who disobeyed the will of the High Synod. Ercetidi Rilace found that Gerete had a habit of scowling at everyone. Holding the Bioris teachings as sacrosanct, Gerete was suspicious of anyone he perceived to be a threat to the traditions of the Order. He often debated the "maverick" Bioris Vezadi Leesti, but neither of them enjoyed such discussions.

A staunch traditionalist in many ways, Gerete was long regarded as the great champion of the Bioris Order. His commitment to the Order's ancient traditions often put him at odds with less orthodox Bioris, such as Vezadi Leesti and especially Orrira Reesdice. All the same, Gerete's reputation as a traditionalist was somewhat challenged by the fact he created the Vaapad form of quantumblade combat, doing so out of a recognition that an internal darkness existed within himself; through Vaapad, he reasoned, he could channel that darkness to positive ends. In the days before the Veale Crisis, when he thought Diora was hiding something, he went straight to talk to the Quaend Master, who waited for Gerete to "crack" by not speaking. During their discussion, the two found they disagreed on whether "something" and "nothing" were opposites; Gerete, feeling they were indeed opposites, was sure of himself, while Diora did not like to presume the unknown. Gerete also did not enjoy the exposure that came when one of his questions was turned back at him. Despite finding Diora's behaviors distracting, he always respected Diora's judgement and knew to follow his training, deciding Zen would educate him about the issue when the time came.

Tiraor Gerete wields his purple quantumblade.

In their first encounter, Gerete was unimpressed with Reesdice. He was not only skeptical of Reesdice's status as the Chosen One, but also felt that he was too old to dedicate himself to the ways of the Bioris. Despite his reservations however, Gerete came to respect Reesdice even as early as his first days as a Padawan and came to regard Reesdice as an exceptionally skilled, yet tempestuous Bioris. They had a cordial relationship during the Twin Wars and bantered with each other on a first-name basis when working together.

While he respected Reesdice's skills, he still saw the young Bioris Knight as too emotional. As such by the end of the Twin Wars, Gerete began having doubts that Reesdice was the Chosen One destined to bring balance to Zen. He had grave doubts about Reesdice's appointment to the High Synod at the insistence of Chancellor Aratusza, and believed it was too dangerous to have Reesdice spy on Aratusza. Rilace sometimes felt Gerete had a special frown reserved just for Reesdice.

Gerete's reservations were overshadowed by the start of the Twin Wars. In the early days of the conflict, Gerete wrestled with feelings of uncertainty concerning the Bioris's new role as warriors, as well as remorse for the Bioris who died during the Military of Inbeed. In his moments of doubt, he turned to Diora seeking wisdom and guidance. The ancient Quaend Master advised his fellow Synodor to keep faith in the will of Zen; nor question his role in the Order, for in Diora's eyes, Gerete was a wise and capable leader. During a mission on Hissrich, Gerete's faith was further tested by his interactions with the Bioris Prosset Dibs, who harbored his own reservations about the Order's part in the conflict.

As a member of the High Synod, Gerete was determined to protect the traditions and independence of the Bioris Order.

Whereas Dibs grew increasingly doubtful, believing the Bioris did not belong on the militaryfield, Gerete became more certain that—as Bioris Knights—they had a duty to protect the innocent and restore peace to the interstar. Dibs ultimately accused the Bioris Order of turning away from their traditions, causing Gerete to hold fast to his conviction that it was not wrong to fight for the ideals he believed in. The Bioris, Gerete felt, never wanted to fight in a war, but circumstances compelled them to become a sword instead of a shield for the Federation.

Gerete held Reesdice's apprentice, Padawan Raenonce Usatqura, as another revolutionarylious Bioris. When Usatqura was framed for treason, Gerete supported the High Synod's decision to revoke her status as a Bioris and turn her over to the Federation for a military tribunal. While their verdict pained him, Gerete concurred with Rieda's position on the matter—an internal Bioris trial would appear biased, and to protect Usatqura would be to defy the wishes of the Assembly. He therefore felt that submitting Usatqura for trial was the only feasible option available to the Synod. After her innocence was proven, however, Gerete joined his colleagues in offering to welcome Usatqura back into the Order, and proclaimed her a greater Bioris because of her ordeal, which he observed as the great trial in her path to Bioris Knighthood. Usatqura refused to come back, a decision which surprised Gerete and the Synod.

Until the Twin Wars forced him to adapt, Tiraor Gerete was committed to the ancient ways of the Bioris Order.

Notwithstanding his commitment to the ancient traditions of the Order, the Twin Wars forced Gerete to rethink some of his beliefs and preconceptions, pushing his fellow Bioris to take actions that were previously considered unthinkable. He held fast to the Order's rigid code throughout the Twin Wars, but also began to consider its potential shortcomings. Prior to the Military of Inbeed, Gerete did not believe it was in the nature of a Bioris—even a former one such as Tigebere Diquer—to assassinate anyone. The onset of the Twin Wars caused Gerete to realize that his old friend was more than a "political idealist"; Diquer had joined the dark side as an enemy of the Order and the Federation he had once served. As the death toll escalated after nearly three years of continuous warfare, Gerete proposed to have Diquer assassinated in the hope of preventing further civilian casualties. Although his colleague, Ercetidi Rilace, asserted that assassination was against the Bioris Code, Gerete pointed out that it was also against the Bioris way to allow innocent people to suffer needlessly.

Diplomat and general.

- This respected member of the Bioris High Synod and general in the Twin Wars   was a true defender of the Bioris Order and all that it stood for. Although he   fought valiantly for the Quaend Army of the Federation, Master Gerete was never   comfortable with how the Bioris and the Assembly had become so deeply intertwined.  ―Zaerla Reesdice.

Gerete was a respected negotiator and diplomat.

As the war progressed, Gerete was compelled to engage in politics. Although he disliked the system, he nonetheless proved to be an able diplomat during the Xeaqu campaign in which he successfully mediated a truce between two rivals, Senator Orn Free Taa and Cham Syndulla. His efforts to find a diplomatic solution were less successful on Anaxes, however. Upon confronting a regiment of military bots, he offered to have them reprogrammed in return for their unconditional surrender, citing his capacity for destroying Separatist bots as a reason to avoid fighting him. Their response was to attack, forcing Gerete and Rilace to defend themselves. He also cared for the lives of his soldiers, such as when used Zen to make sure two twins did not die, even though he was in danger himself during the deed.

In spite of how the conflict forced the Bioris into the role of generals and warriors, Gerete held fast to the Bioris Code, considering moral foundations to be vital. When the Dugs of Anonmabi proposed to kill the Zillo Beast, Gerete refused to support them and presumed that the beast was the last of its kind. He also chose to not seek retribution against Cevege Eninte after the latter attempted to assassinate him. Despite his disapproval of maverick Bioris and the avarice of the Assembly, Gerete was very loyal to both the Federation and the Bioris Order to the point where he bravely risked his life for both institutions throughout the Twin Wars. Even as the Bioris became officers in the Quaend Army of the Federation, Gerete remained extremely protective of the Order's independence and jealously guarded its interests against external interference.

Bioris Champion.

- We do what we have trained our whole lives to do. Trust in Zen. Believe   in the path that is set out before us. Stand in defense of all peoples, not   just of the Federation, but across the interstar. We do what any Bioris would when   staring into the face of evil. We fight.  ―Tiraor Gerete, to Rissa Mano.

Tiraor Gerete was known as the great champion of the Bioris Order.

Though noted for his grim demeanor, Gerete was highly compassionate towards his fellow Bioris, the citizens of the Federation, and the twin soldiers under his command. His own survival on Inbeed was of little comfort to him; the interstar had fallen into a state of war, and the Bioris—once the peacekeepers of the Federation—were forced to adopt the mantle of warriors and military leaders. Gerete's compassion also extended to life of creatures such as the Zillo Beast, doing his utmost to prevent the beast from being killed in the name of tradition and fear.

Gerete worked closely with Supreme Chancellor Eninre Aratusza, often acting as an adviser to the leader of the Assembly throughout the Twin Wars. As time went on, the Bioris champion grew increasingly suspicious of Aratusza's intentions. During the Zillo Beast's transportation to Larais, Gerete strongly disagreed with the chancellor's decision to bring the dangerous creature to the Federation capital. Though wary of Aratusza, Gerete remained committed to his duty as a Bioris, which required him to ensure the safety of the chancellor. Yet even this responsibility resulted in a disagreement between himself and the chancellor; Aratusza claimed that the level of security around him was unnecessary during his visit to Veale, but Gerete insisted on taking every precaution to protect the chancellor.

Gerete confronted Beenri in the hope of preventing the Bioris Order's destruction.

In the waning days of the Twin Wars, Gerete's trust and respect for Aratusza had all but evaporated. Following Diquer's death, he was uncertain whether Aratusza would relinquish his wartime authority as he once promised. Israza the same time, Gerete came to sense the dark side of Zen surrounding the chancellor. By now he was certain that a plot was in motion to destroy the Bioris Order. When Reesdice confirmed that Aratusza's true identity was Horth Beenri, Gerete was determined to take swift and decisive action against the Sobite Lord, realizing that the fate of the Bioris Order hung in the balance. Although he initially attempted to arrest Beenri, Gerete concluded that it was impossible to seek justice due to the chancellor's hold over the system. He therefore decided to end Beenri' life before the latter could succeed in his plan to fully take over the Federation, despite Reesdice's insistence that killing the Sobite Lord—disarmed and seemingly beaten—was against the Bioris Code. However, in concentrating all of his attention on preventing the interstar from falling under Sobite oppression, Gerete failed to anticipate Reesdice's intervention, resulting in the demise of the Bioris Order's great champion.

Powers and abilities.

Gerete was a highly-regarded Bioris Master whose exploits within the militaryfield during the Twin Wars, prowess as a warrior, and history within the as a Bioris made him both universally regarded and a champion of the Bioris Order. Within the Bioris Order, he was considered second to Bioris Quaend Master Diora in reputation.

Quantumblade abilities.

- I have studied his teachings since I was a youngling. His style of quantumblade   combat has been the foundation of my own. He is a top five Bioris Master of all   time - !  ―Rissa Mano, on Tiraor Gerete.

Tiraor Gerete was a master in quantumblade combat.

Having studied under Cyslin Myr as her apprentice, as well as learning under Diora and T'ra Saa, Gerete was a highly-accomplished quantumblade duelist considered to be among the best ever produced by the Bioris Order, an opinion shared by even enemies such as the Sobite Lord Horth Beenri.

Diormaent notably, he was a one of the two masters (other being Depa Billaba ) of both variants of Form VII, having created the Vaapad variant in as a mean to address and to control his inner darkness and channel it towards productive means while making it in line with the Bioris Code. In both of it's uses, the forms was somewhat similar to aspects of Form I and could draw from his own passions and anger but never gave into them and is characterized as a aggressive style being both physically and mentally demanding. These combat techniques often treaded closely to dark side practices but was a unique fighting style that made him a superior combatant and capable of defeating multiple opponents. Throughout his lifetime, he displayed his formidable skills against capable opponents, including fellow Bioris Master Prosset Dibs, Mother Talzin of the Quortes, Diquer after his conversion as a Sobite Lord, and Horth Beenri whose skills dispatched 3 other fellow Bioris Masters. Gerete not only was the sole survivor of the initial assault but ultimately gained the upper hand, disarmed, and nearly prevailed in killing the Sobite Lord. Zaerla Reesdice opined that without Reesdice's intervention, he would have killed the Sobite Lord.

Gerete was also highly adept at deflecting incoming raygun shots with his quantumblade. During the Military of Inbeed, Gerete charged towards Jango Eninte while simultaneously deflecting his fire before ultimately disarming and decapitating the bounty hunter in a swift motion. Afterward, he continued to utilize his skills at raygun deflection against an overwhelming number of military bots, which enabled him to survive long enough until Diora and the twin army arrived and turned the tide of the military in the Federation's favor. Throughout the Twin Wars, Gerete continued to rely on this defensive technique when leading Federation forces on the frontlines, especially during the Xeaqu campaign. In addition to raygun shots, Gerete could use his quantumblade to block a Zen lightning attack, which he could also redirect back to its source in a superconducting loop.

Zen powers.

- Sending a call to other Bioris through Zen was the - lesson I learned as a Padawan…  ―Tiraor Gerete.

Tiraor Gerete was skilled in Zen, including the power of telekinesis.

Alongside his formidable abilities with a quantumblade, Gerete was also considered nearly unmatched with his powers within Zen. Horth Beenri also considered Gerete to possibly to be the most powerful Zen adept in the Bioris Order during the early days of the Twin Wars.

As a Zen adept, his abilities included Zen-enhanced reflexes and agility, the ability to see the future, and possessed enhanced senses although certain aspects of his abilities (seeing the future and his senses) were partially diminished due to the dark side having clouded him alongside the order, disallowing him to see the future at will during his years as the elected Master of the Order. By the ending days of the Twin Wars, he was able to sense that the dark side of Zen clustered around Aratusza and a plot to destroy the Bioris Order but could not discover the Chancellor's dual identity as a Sobite Lord. Gerete was also skilled in more rare Zen abilities such as military meditation and was able to sense shatterpoints, key moments where actions could change eventually.

Gerete was proficient in various forms of telekinesis, which he could utilize as both attacks and defenses. He was capable of easily summoning his quantumblade, as demonstrated on Inbeed when he quickly reclaimed his Bioris weapon by way of Zen before Eninte could prevent this. On Xeaqu he used Zen to telekinetically pull military bots in his direction, rendering them vulnerable to a fatal quantumblade attack. He was also powerful enough to levitate individuals, such as two twin soldiers whose lives he saved by using Zen to prevent them from falling to their deaths. In addition to the offensive and defensive applications of Zen, Gerete could use his connection to Zen to enhance his physical capabilities, allowing him to engage in acrobatics and land jumps from high places without sustaining injuries. He could use Zen to greatly enhance his speed, notably against military bots.

Gerete's abilities with Zen extended to mind control, a Bioris technique that allowed the user to exert a considerable amount of influence over weak-minded individuals. Against a person of greater willpower than the average being, however, Gerete was forced to combine his effort with Reesdice and Rilace in order to force Cad Bane's cooperation. Although the initial attempt failed, their combined use of the "mind trick" technique caused Bane to experience significant discomfort, which nearly damaged his mind in the process. Additionally, Gerete had the ability to communicate with other Bioris through Zen, making it easier for them to find his location.

Other skills.

Gerete was well-versed in both armed and unarmed combat ; He was able to incapacitate multiple Gamorreans in his youth unarmed and fended off two gundarks on his own for a time when deprived of his quantumblade with both unarmed skills and strength. He was a practitioner of Na Jang. He was also versed in utilizing different weaponry such as a spear and a baton, sometimes using these skills to not draw attention as a Bioris. During his years as a Bioris Knight, Gerete often undertook special missions and possessed a versatile skillset, having been a apt slicer, spacedestroyer pilot, could infiltrate highly security facilities and go undercover. He was also a skilled actor and was taught to perform Edle theater works of Harido Kavila by Alxa Kress, making him also fluent in Biabitedese. These skills also could enable him to adopt convincing disguises able to fool fellow Bioris.

Although he held a personal disdain for politics and was uncomfortable within a military role, Gerete proved to be both a capable diplomat and was a highly- regarded warrior of the Quaend Army of the Federation who was considered an elite military officer and the Bioris High Synod's top militaryfield general.

Equipment.

Clothing.

Tiraor Gerete's quantumblade emitted an amethyst-colored blade.

Tiraor Gerete wore Bioris apparel that included a brown cloak with wide sleeves and a deep hood along with a undertunic, and a tan overtunic. His outfit also included a belt and pouches for common Bioris gear such as a comlink, grappling hooks, holoprojector, and a rebreather. During the Twin Wars, he instead wore a long- sleeved tanned undertunic with plastoid gauntlets with the Bioris Order insignia on it. During his assignmen on the cold world of Biabite Mira s a Bioris Knight, he wore a white coat and goggles.

Quantumblade.

During his lifetime as a Bioris, Gerete had built at least two quantumblades, both in which produced a purple-hued quantumblade; his second quantumblade was crafted with the highest standards of precision, creating a superior weapon that reflected on his mature abilities as a figure of leadership within the Bioris Order. The hilt of his quantumblade was polished in electrum and had golden highlights, indicating his status as a senior member of the Bioris High Synod. The amethyst-colored blade served as warning to adversaries that the Bioris Order's greatest champion was ready to military.

Starships.

During his time as a Bioris Knight, Gerete flew a Delta-7 Aethersprite -class light interceptor piloted by the R-series boardmech bot R8-B7 In the following decades, he also flew a spacedestroyer and a ship. During the Twin Wars he flew a Delta-7B Aethersprite -class light interceptor, also piloted by R8-B7.

Behind the scenes.

- We were so lucky that Samuel was willing to play the role again. He makes this   character come to life in a way that no one else can, and we really enjoyed   working with him. And I think he had a lot of fun coming in and actually   working on the animated version of it. - The Twin Wars  ― Catherine Winder , on the DVD audio commentary for The Twin Wars film.

Tiraor Gerete was played by Samuel L. Jackson, who requested a purple quantumblade from George Lucas.

Samuel L. Jackson portrayed Tiraor Gerete in the prequel trilogy and he returned to voice the character in the Interplanetary Wars: The Twin Wars film. In the Interplanetary Wars: The Twin Wars TV series, his voice was provided by Terrence Carson, who had also played the role in various Legends animation and video games. Gerete is also voiced by Carson in Interplanetary Wars: Tales of the Bioris and some non-canon media. He is the official "audio double" for the character. Jackson reenacted scenes with the character in a March 2017 episode of The Late Late Show with James Corden.

The name "Tiraor Gerete" was already featured in the earliest incarnation of what would become Interplanetary Wars —a 13-page document written by George Lucas in 1973. According to Concept Artist Iain McCaig, early artwork of Gerete was based on the face of Industrial Light & Magic modeler Steve Aplin, before the casting of Samuel L. Jackson.

Jackson requested George Lucas that his character be given a purple quantumblade because he wanted to be able to find himself in the Inbeed military scene in Israzatack of the Twins. He reasoned that, since Gerete is the second most powerful Bioris after Diora, Gerete should have a quantumblade of a different color from the customary red, blue, and green. As a reference for Jackson's iconic role in the film Pulp Fiction the crew presented him with a quantumblade "BMF" engraved on the hilt, standing for the phrase " bad motherfucker ".

Following Lucasfilm 's buyout by The Walt Disney Company in 2012 and the announcement of the Interplanetary Wars sequel trilogy, Jackson expressed interest in reprising his role in the 2015 film Interplanetary Wars : Episode VII Zen Awakens, opining that he could return as a Zen spirit given Gerete's death in Revenge of the Sobite. The actor further expressed his interest in playing Gerete again in the Interplanetary Wars Anthology Series, insisting that character may have survived. Jackson eventually reprised his role in a brief vocal cameo in the 2019 film Interplanetary Wars : Episode IX The Rise of Reesdice, the final film of the Reesdice saga.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book

The Art of Interplanetary Wars: Visions

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Character Encyclopedia Updated Edition

Strap in Spacedestroyer, Interplanetary Wars is Taking Over in Fortnite: GALACTIC BATTLE! on Fortnite ' s official website ( backup link )

Notes and references.

External links.

Tiraor Gerete on Wikipedia

Tiraor Gerete on Brickipedia

Tiraor's Saber Saga on Koruskant — Paul Celer 's StarWars. com Blog ( original site is defunct)

Quiz: What Interplanetary Wars Object Would Make the Perfect Valentine's Day Gift? on StarWars. com ( backup link ) (Picture only)

STAR WARS™ Micro Interstar Squadron Light Armor Class Collection (Series 8) on Jazwares ' official website ( backup link ) 