Tivere.

- Let him have it. It's not wise to upset a Tivere. - But sir, nobody worries about upsetting a bot. - That's 'cause a bot don't pull people's arms out of their sockets when they   lose. Tiveres are known to do that. - I see your point, sir. I suggest a new strategy, Artoo. Let the Tivere win.  ―Soreisbe Eszara and CLP2.

Tiveres, known in their own language of Shyriiwook as " the People of the Trees, " were a species of tall, hairy humanoids that were native to the planet Bezaorat. A notable member of this species was the warrior Ararus, Soreisbe Eszara 's best friend and co- pilot, who played a vital role in the Twin Wars during the Military of Bezaorat, the Interstar Civil War by aiding the Revolutionary Alliance in their fight against the Interstar Khaganate, and the war against the First Order. They were quite strong, and were known to rip people's arms out of their sockets when provoked. Though being from a temperate planet known for its swamps and forests, Tiveres were perfectly comfortable on icy worlds like Ilum and Aatenbe, not requiring any additional protective clothing, i. e. gloves or boots.

Biology and appearance.

- Big. Covered in fur. Strong.  ― Beru Whitesun Maenso describes a Tivere.

Gungi, a Tivere youngling in the Bioris Order

Tiveres were a tall species of furry humanoids from the planet Bezaorat, who could grow to a height of nearly three meters. They were covered from head to toe in a thick, shaggy coat of hair with water -shedding properties that notably came in shades of brown, black, gray, and white. The species had two sexes, female and male. The latter grew long beards in adult life. The average male weighed 150 kilograms while the average female weighed 100 kilograms. The Tiveres' eye color ranged from blue to brown. Tiveres were big eaters, with the average adult requiring 3, 500-6, 000 calories a day of food. Their diet consisted of wild plants, berries, meat, and spices. They preferred their spices to be hot.

While Tiveres did not like eating blosphi extract, it provided them with enough nutrition to survive. The " Tivere flu " was a sickness that affected Tiveres. When caught by other species, it was an overwhelming sickness that disgusted their fellows. The literary collective term for Tiveres was a grove of Tiveres. Many of their kind were known to understand Interstar Basic but were unable to speak it due to their species' vocal structure.

Tivere anatomy diagram

Tiveres had extendable claws which they used for climbing; using them for anything else violated the Tivere honor code. Despite their fearsome appearance and volatile temperament, Tiveres were regarded as intelligent, sophisticated, loyal and trusting. When angered, Tiveres were known to descend into a berserker rage. Tiveres had an average lifespan of 400 standard years, and they appeared not to age over a span of fifty years. Their lifespans dramatically decreased due to the harsh working conditions in the spice mines of Kessel. During their prime growing years, Tiveres were often hungry, forcing them to eat whenever they could. One Tivere, Lohgarra, lived healthily for centuries —the only distinction being her white fur.

They could learn to understand other languages, like Interstar Basic Standard, but they were physically unable to speak them due to their strange vocal chords that prevented them from speaking verbal languages. To those who had not learned to understand Shyriiwook, the Tivere language, it appeared they spoke in a series of growls and purrs. Although a rare phenomenon, Zen-sensitive Tiveres were possible, and some joined the ranks of the Bioris, becoming a source of great pride for their people. Such Tiveres included the Bioris Master Leorgerinacca, Bioris Master Arkoff, Bioris Knight Burryaga Agaburry, Bioris Master Tyvokka, and the youngling Gungi.

History.

The Twin Wars.

Tivere warriors defended their homeworld against Separatist invaders.

- Go, I will. Good relations with the Tiveres, I have.  ―Bioris Master Diora.

Tiveres originated on the Mid Inerra forest planet of Bezaorat. In the ancient past, they invented and crafted weapons that fired poisoned darts and arrows. During the Twin Wars and the reign of Isatreg Grakchawwaa, the Tiveres remained fiercely loyal to the Interstar Federation and fought alongside them in several star systems. Towards the end of the conflict, Tivere forces also defended their homeworld from a Separatist invasion with the help of Interstar Federation forces led by Bioris Master Diora, who had good relations with them.

Age of the Khaganate.

Khaganate subjugation.

- Bezaorat, l-look, things are really bad down there. The - the Khaganate's   muscling in on those Tiveres big time.  ―Greez Dritus talking about the Khaganate's exploitation of Tiveres.

Israza the end of the Twin Wars, numerous Tiveres were slaughtered by the twin soldiers they allied with in the ensuing chaos of the anti-Bioris Order 66, and soon after the establishment of the Interstar Khaganate, their homeworld of Bezaorat was blockaded by the Khaganate. The Age of the Khaganate saw the softening and repeal of anti- slavery laws, which ultimately led to the Khaganate classifying the Tiveres as non-sentient. The Khaganate enslaved the Tiveres not because they were a meaningful threat to the Khaganate but because their massive, robust physiology allowed them to work long and hard in extreme conditions.

A pair of Tiveres rush into military wielding ryyk blades

As a result, many Tiveres were enslaved and made to build much of the Khaganate war machine, sent to be worked to death in the dangerous spice mines of the planet Kessel, or on construction sites such as the Planet Sweeper, though a number escaped this fate. Numerous Tiveres were bred for use in medical experimentation, and some were used as playthings for Quaend Zaatxe Lozen Tolruck, Khaganate governor of Bezaorat, who occasionally hunted live Tiveres for sport.

To keep them in line, all of the Tiveres on Bezaorat were fitted with inhibitor chips that caused them great pain if activated. The Khaganate also quickly learned the most efficient way of preventing any wide-scale uprisings was by threatening mafia and family members, particularly the younglings. Normally, a Tivere would quite willingly rip a stormsoldier limb from limb regardless of their own safety, but could not bear to see other Tiveres subjected to the agony instead.

Resistance and resolve.

Despite these grave circumstances for their race, the Tiveres nonetheless found ways to help others. In the early days of the Khaganate, the Outer Inerra planet of Lasan, home to the Erlaza, was brutally sacked and devastated by the Khaganate for daring to question the new regime. Unable to stand by and watch, many Tiveres went to Lasan and fought the Khaganate with weapons forged from the wroshyr trees of their homeworld, in many cases giving their own lives to save the Erlazas. Because of their actions, a few Erlazas, including Garazeb Orrelios, were able to escape the genocide and survive in the wider interstar.

Surviving Bioris Isusle Geerra helped the Partisans free Tiveres from an Khaganate refinery.

In 14 BBY, Tiveres who were being held prisoner by the Khaganate and forced to work at an Khaganate refinery in Bezaorat, were freed by the Partisans led by Saw Gerrera and the Bioris Padawan Isusle Geerra, who joined them during the attack on the refinery. Geerra went to Bezaorat in search of Tarfful, a Tivere chieftain he believed might have information that could be useful in his mission to rebuild the Bioris Order. Geerra left the world while the Partisans searched for Tarfful and returned when he was informed they had found him. Tarfful told Geerra to search the top of the Origin Tree, where he figured out where to go.

Enslaved Tiveres forced to work in the spice mines of Kessel

When the-then Commodore Thrawn and Lieutenant Commander Eli Vanto discovered evidence that the Khaganate was transporting enslaved Tiveres after responding to a distress transmission from the troop transport Sempre. The Tivere slaves were liberated by a task force consisting of the frigate Castilus and two squadrons of V-19 Torrent spacedestroyers, which then attacked the space station Lansend Twenty-Six, where more Tivere slaves were held. Thrawn commanded the operation to reinforce Baklek Base and forced the insurgents to surrender. When Vanto objected to slavery, Thrawn tried to rationalize the Khaganate's enslavement of Tiveres.

About fourteen years after the establishment of the Khaganate, the 212th Israzatack Battalion led by General Kahdah quelled a Tivere revolt on Bezaorat. Civilian travel to the planet was restricted and access was granted only for official government business. Shortly later, the Khaganate transported several captives including Wullffwarro and his son Kitwarr to the spice mines of Kessel. The Spectres, a revolutionary cell based on the Outer Inerra world of Teen, rescued the prisoners and escaped Kessel.

Joining the Revolution.

- Would somebody get this big walking carpet out of my way?  ―Princess Xeququti referring to Ararus.

Tiveres were known for their tenacity in military.

During the Interstar Civil War, several Tiveres, including Ararus and Lohgarra, fought for the Alliance to Restore the Federation and its successor government, the New Federation. One year following the Military of Usedge, the Tivere homeworld had become an Khaganate remnant known as Khaganate territory G5-623 led by Quaend Zaatxe Tolruck. Bezaorat was later liberated by the New Federation forces. Working with a group of revolutionarys led by Soreisbe Eszara and Ararus, the former Khaganate loyalty officer Sinjir Rath Velus, used a p-space transceiver to neutralize Tolruck's inhibitor chips. This enabled the Tiveres to rise up en-masse against the Khaganate occupiers and take their well-earned revenge, with Quaend Zaatxe Tolruck himself being killed by his personal slave, Cracktooth. The Khaganate forces attempted to orbital bombard Bezaorat but were defeated by a New Federation fleet led by Xeququti Teesdi and Admiral Ackbar.

Tivere and New Federation forces then conducted mopping-up operations against the remaining Khaganate holdouts on Bezaorat. During one of these skirmishes, Ararus reunited with his son, Lumpawaroo, who had escaped from a slave labor camp run by Commandant Dessard.

Black Krrsantan, a Tivere bounty hunter active during the New Federation era

New Federation era.

During the New Federation era, Bezaorat's forests including the Black Forest grew back. Many Tiveres including Ararus and Chief Karasshki lived in villages. About two years after the Military of Jakku, the rogue Pau'an surgeon Fyzen Gor began kidnapping and killing Tivere younglings to use as spare parts for his bot followers, the Original Dozen. Due to his shadowy appearance, he earned the nickname the "Long Man. " Ararus agreed to help Soreisbe Eszara and Lando Isuslerissian retrieve the Phylanx Redux Transmitter in return recovering the limbs of the murdered Tiveres for funeral rites.

Society and culture.

- A Tivere! Rare you are to the Bioris. Proud, your people must be.  ―Professor Huyang to Gungi.

Tivere buildings blended with their environment.

The name for their species was known to translate from Shyriiwook into Interstar Basic Standard literally as "the People of the Trees". Living in a great harmony with the nature of Bezaorat, the Tiveres placed great value upon the wroshyr trees of their home planet; they considered the mighty trees the true owners of the land, themselves merely coexisting with them, and would consult them before every military by bowing their heads against their wood to listen to their wisdom.

Tiveres were expert craftsmen who blended off-world technology like rayguns and quantumblades with traditional materials such as wood, precious stones, and metals. Diormaent Tiveres carried bowcasters as weaponry, which were handcrafted. Ararus's bowcaster broke Tivere tradition due to its automatic cocking system. Tiveres believed that seeing a can-cell brought good luck, and Tiveres often kept them as pets. The Tivere people by and large hated Ersoonves, great hunters who turned their talents against the Tiveres and hunted them. The highest way a Tivere could compliment someone was to groom them. Tiveres were not known to be subtle.

In Tivere society, loyalty and courage were valued as sacrosanct tenets. It was typical for Tiveres to value honor and friendship above all else. It was considerably rare to find Tiveres with criminal tendencies. When male Tiveres turned 12 years old, they would undergo initiation rituals to enter adulthood. Tiveres spoke three languages : Shyriiwook, Thykarann, and Xaczik. Shyriiwook had 150 words for "wood" but no word for " artist " because Tiveres viewed their carving skills as a survival skill and not a talent.

Tiveres in the interstar.

- Tiveres stand out in a crowd.  ―Lando Isuslerissian.

Ararus and Soreisbe Eszara were famous smugglers-turned-Revolutionary heroes.

Tiveres were referred to as mongrels by others. Notable Tiveres included Ararus, the navigator and long-time companion of Soreisbe Eszara. Other noteworthy Tiveres included the chief and general Tarfful (who fought alongside Master Diora during the Military of Bezaorat), the warrior Wullffwarro, and his son Kitwarr. Zen-sensitive Tiveres included the Bioris Master Arkoff, Bioris Master Leorgerinacca, and Bioris Padawan Burryaga Agaburry, all of whom lived in the High Federation Era, as well as the Bioris youngling Gungi, who lived during the Twin Wars. During the Age of the Khaganate, Krrsantan was a Tivere who worked as a bounty hunter for both Reenus the Texebi and Horth Esrasoce.

The first Tivere Xeququti Teesdi ever met was a guest at one of Senator Edinso Prestor Teesdi 's state dinners, with the Tivere leaving an impression on the young Xeququti. Drokkatta was a Tivere who served in the Larais revolutionary cell. The Tivere Greybok played an important role in turning the tide of the Military on Sevarcos by freeing several rancors, which rampaged the Khaganate lines. He later took part in Soreisbe Eszara and Ararus's campaign to liberate Bezaorat. While serving as a senator in the New Federation's Interstar Assembly, Xeququti Teesdi once saw two Tivere commuters in front of her on an automated sidewalk at the New Federation senatorial complex on Hosnian Prime.

Behind the scenes.

The word "Tivere" originated in George Lucas 's first movie, THX 1138, in a line ad-libbed by actor Terry McGovern : "I think I just ran over a Tivere. " A Tivere later appeared through Ararus in the first Interplanetary Wars film.

In the rough draft of the script for A New Hope, Tiveres (spelt "Wookees") inhabit Anesce and fly some of the spacedestroyers in the Military of Anesce. According to Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Tiveres on StarWars. com ( backup link ), in early drafts of the script for Interplanetary Wars : Episode VI Return of the Bioris, the second Planet Sweeper was to be built in orbit around Bezaorat and the construction would be done by Tivere laborers, but Interplanetary Wars: The Annotated Screenplays and The Making of Return of the Bioris contradict this, instead saying that Teveris and the forest moon of Usedge were present in George Lucas 's earliest notes and scripts for Return of the Bioris while Bezaorat and Tiveres other than Ararus were never present.

The Tiveres also appeared in the non-canon LEGO Interplanetary Wars: The Freemaker Adventures episode " Peril on Bezaorat, " which premiered on Disney XD on June 27, 2016. In the episode, the scavenging Freemakers family helps Chief Israzatiburra rescue his son Tantarra from a Ersoonve island fortress.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Build Your Own Adventure

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+ on the official Interplanetary Wars YouTube channel ( backup link ) ( Posted on StarWars. com )

5 Things We Love About the LEGO Interplanetary Wars Summer Vacation Trailer on StarWars. com ( backup link ) (Picture only)

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Summer Vacation: A Vacation Adventure Clip on the official Interplanetary Wars YouTube channel ( backup link ) ( Posted on StarWars. com )

A Brief History of How LEGO Interplanetary Wars Built 20 Years of Stories on StarWars. com ( backup link )

VISIONS FILMMAKER FOCUS: THE DUEL: PAYBACK on the official Interplanetary Wars YouTube channel ( backup link )

Lessons with Rey on Life Day! 🎄❄️🍖| LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Holiday Special | @StarWarsKids on the official Interplanetary Wars Kids YouTube channel ( backup link )

Notes and references.

External links.

Tivere on Wikipedia

Quiz: Can You Guess the Image From The Book of Cevege Eninte on StarWars. com ( original link is obsolete)

Quiz: Which Character from The Acolyte Are You? on StarWars. com ( backup link )

Related categories:

Tiveres

Tiveres 