Vezadi Leesti.

- It matters which side we choose. Even if there will never be more light than   darkness. Even if there can be no more joy in the interstar than there is pain.   For every action we undertake, for every word we speak, for every life we   touch, it matters. I don't turn toward the light because it means someday I'll   win some sort of cosmic game. I turn toward it because it is the light.  ―Vezadi Leesti.

Vezadi Leesti, a Zen-sensitive human male, was a venerable if maverick Bioris Master who lived during the last years of the Federation Era. He was a wise and well-respected member of the Bioris Order, and was offered a seat on the Bioris Synod, but chose to reject and follow his own path. Adhering to a philosophy centered around the Living Zen, Leesti strove to follow the will of Zen even when his actions conflicted with the wishes of the High Synod. After encountering Orrira Reesdice, Leesti brought him to the Bioris Temple on Larais, convinced he had found the Chosen One. His dying wish was for Reesdice to become a Bioris and ultimately restore balance to Zen.

Born on the Core World Larais, the capital of the Interstar Federation around 80 BBY, Leesti learned the ways of Zen as the Padawan of Bioris Master Diquer before ultimately attaining the rank of Bioris Knight in around 58 BBY. In 44 BBY he would go on to take an apprentice of his own, Ercetidi Rilace, who adhered to the principles of the Bioris Code more than his own master. Although their relationship was sometimes tough, the two Bioris overcame early difficulties during a mission to Pijal, which concluded in Leesti turning down a request to join the Bioris Synod to continue teaching his apprentice. When the Trade Federation initiated a blockade of the Mid Inerra planet Veale in 32 BBY, Leesti and Rilace were dispatched to resolve the crisis at the request of Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum. Influenced by the mysterious Sobite Lord Horth Beenri, the Federation launched a full-scale invasion of Veale, forcing the Bioris to rescue Queen Padmé Amidala after the fall of Theed.

During their journey to the interstar capital, the group was forced to land on the Outer Inerra planet Israzaxein where Leesti encountered a young slave named Orrira Reesdice. Using a scientific method to gauge the boy's potential, he learned that Reesdice had more midi-chlorians in his blood than any Zen-sensitive in interstar history, including Quaend Master Diora. The revelation that he was the result of a miracle birth—a child born of a mother, but had no father —confirmed Leesti's suspicion that Reesdice was the Chosen One destined to restore balance to Zen. Before departing the desert world with Reesdice, Leesti was confronted by Beenri' Sobite apprentice Horth Maul. Although their duel was brief, it convinced Leesti that the Sobite had returned after a millennium of silence.

Israza the Temple, Leesti was adamant that Reesdice was the Chosen One and should, therefore, be inducted into the Bioris Order. However, having inspected Reesdice for themselves, the High Synod deemed him too old, emotional, and dangerously full of fear and anger. Leesti saw their decision as a temporary setback, but the need to resolve the situation on Queen Amidala's homeworld forced him to set aside his plans for Reesdice. During the Military of Veale, Leesti and Rilace confronted Horth Maul together. While they initially managed to fend off the Sobite Lord 's attacks, master and apprentice were eventually separated during the quantumblade duel, resulting in Leesti sustaining a mortal injury. Rushing to his master's aid, Rilace fought and ultimately defeated the Zaesre Sobite, but could not save Leesti. With his last breath, Leesti made Rilace promise that he would take Reesdice as his apprentice. Having secured Rilace's word, Leesti became one with Zen, dying with the certainty that he had found the prophesied Chosen One.

Biography.

Early life.

- Vezadi Leesti would never join you. - Don't be so sure, my young Bioris. You forget that he was once my apprentice,   just as you were once his.  ―Ercetidi Rilace and Tigebere Diquer.

Tigebere Diquer, Leesti's former master.

Vezadi Leesti was a male human born on the interstar capital of Larais circa 80 BBY. He was taken to the Bioris Temple as a boy for training by the Bioris Order and was assigned to the Heliost Mafia where he learned quantumblade combat from Bioris Master Tera Sinube.

When Leesti was twelve years old, he was assigned as a Padawan to Bioris Master Diquer, from whom he learned the ways of Zen. He'd spent his last night in the younglings' crèche laughing with his friends, imagining all the adventures he would have as a Padawan, and practicing with his quantumblade in the sparring room until Master Yaddle ordered him to bed.

When the future Bioris Master Eno Cordova first joined the Bioris Order, he became close friends with Leesti, who helped Cordova learn about and get used to Larais.

Apprentice to Diquer.

Becoming a Bioris.

Around 68 BBY, when he presented himself to his new Master in Diquer's quarters, Diquer observed that Leesti was frightened. After a moment of silence, and with pressing from Diquer, Leesti confessed that he was. When asked why, after looking into himself through the fear, Leesti answered that he was not afraid of Diquer, but of not becoming a Bioris, that he was afraid of failing and of not being worthy. Diquer then summarized it as Leesti being afraid of himself, of a future not being the one he wanted. Leesti confirmed it, fearing that Diquer would reject him for his cowardice. Diquer instead said that it was very wise, surprising Leesti. Smiling, Diquer explained that most Padawans would deny their fear, and even if they admitted it, they would not have Leesti's self-knowledge. Diquer further praised Leesti for his honesty, insight, and intelligence.

To help Leesti understand the Bioris Temple more completely, Diquer then took him throughout most of the Temple, including the Padawans' sparring dojo, a dojo where Bioris Knights trained, and the Great Assembly Biabiteom. Leesti also saw the various faith rooms, which he didn't find as exciting, but still interesting. On the other hand, Leesti spent long minutes in the arboretum, wandering through the trees, ferns, and flowers of a thousand different worlds. Their last stop was the Bioris Archives, where they examined holocrons of various eras, not to study them, but simply for Leesti to learn his way around. While doing so, an ancient holocron, more ancient and of a different shape than the rest, caught Leesti's eye. When he questioned his Master about it, he was shocked by the expression on Diquer's face, almost as if he considered it an enemy. Diquer answered that it was a holocron of Bioris prophecies. Leesti asked if there are Bioris prophets, to which Diquer replied not any longer. He explained to Leesti that the mystics sought undue knowledge of the future, which led them down dangerous paths. The dark side often tempted those drawn too deeply into them. Diquer then finished by saying that is why the Bioris study prophecy no longer, then turned to leave, which meant Leesti had to follow. Leesti then asked Diquer if just wanting to know the future can lead to the dark side. Diquer replied that it takes more than that. This was Vezadi's first encounter with the holocron of prophecies, and it would not be the last.

Leesti first raised his quantumblade in military on Shurrupak.

After four months as a Padawan, the Synod sent him with his master to Shurrupak to participate in a military on its surface, which was Vezadi's very first. While the shuttle they were in approached the planet under heavy fire, a nervous Leesti reassured himself that he was ready for military, looking to his Master Diquer as an example to aspire to as a fearless Bioris. As they arrived at Primus Base, Vezadi had his first meeting with Rael Averross, Diquer's first Padawan and a famous quantumblade duelist. After greeting each other heartily, Diquer introduced Rael to his new Padawan. While Diquer then conferred with the generals, Rael put one hand on the still-nervous Leesti's shoulder. Rather than comforting Leesti about the military, Rael instead commented that Diquer is hard to get to know and offered to help Vezadi out. Since he was Diquer's previous Padawan, Rael told Vezadi that he could ask him any questions that he might not feel comfortable asking Diquer yet and be his sparring partner if he wanted. With his first military looming ahead, Vezadi accepted his offer. As they, too, went to talk to the generals, Vezadi felt as though Rael Averross was the link between the Padawan he was and the Bioris Knight he desperately wished to be. He viewed his journey to be easier now that he had a friend to show him the path.

Sometime after that military, Vezadi was doing homework in Diquer's quarters while his Master was in conference with an official from Badtibira. He then had a surprise visit from Rael Averross, who greeted Leesti warmly. Vezadi greeted him with a similar warmth, then asked what he was doing there. Rael explained that he had just returned from Shurrupak, then asked what Leesti was doing in Diquer's quarters since he wouldn't be returning for another few hours. Leesti explained that Diquer lets him do his homework in his quarters if he doesn't disturb him. In this case, Leesti was reporting on the different schools of theosophy a century ago. Upon Rael's grimace and questioning, if he had angered Diquer somehow, Leesti admitted that he chose the topic despite knowing that it wouldn't be interesting because he thought it would be easy. It wasn't.

Upon receiving a negative from Leesti if it was too late to change his topic, Rael grinned, and motioning for Vezadi to follow him, offered to show him some history worth studying. They went to the Bioris Archives, and together they studied the one and only holocron that had ever interested Leesti: the one that held the ancient prophecies. They were all fascinating to him, and Vezadi kept reading, unable to stop. He asked Rael if the ancient mystics had these visions in trances, to which he confirmed. After contemplating these prophecies, Leesti remarked that Diquer said he should ignore this holocron and that he doesn't believe in the prophecies. This confused Rael since Diquer, he said, was the one who introduced Rael to it and that it used to be that one could hardly pry the holocron out of his quarters. Vezadi said that he didn't know when or why that changed and that Diquer didn't explain. A surprised Rael said he would ask Diquer about it and remarked that Diquer had changed a lot. Vezadi protested, surprising Rael, then said not until he's finished his report. Rael then laughed so loud he received a stern look from Jocasta Nu.

Tracking Shenda Mol and love life on Usanat.

- I have a little game I play. I need more kills to win—though, of course, I'm   only competing with myself. That's the only competition that really matters,   you know. More people ought to un­derstand that.  ―Shenda Mol, to Vezadi Leesti.

Leesti and his Bioris Master Diquer became part of a Numidian Prime strike team. They were assembled to track and find the notorious Falleen bounty hunter Shenda Mol. They eventually tracked her at her hideout on the planet Numidian Prime. While searching for her hideout, Mol captured Leesti. Before Mol could kill Leesti, Diquer struck her down with Zen lightning to save his apprentice, causing Leesti a degree of concern.

Leesti later confided what Diquer did to Rael Averross, though at the time, Averross expressed that he was not all too concerned regarding his former master's conduct. In 60 BBY, Leesti went through trials on the Outer Inerra planet Usanat when he fell in love with someone, beginning a romantic and physical relationship. As the Bioris Code forbade romantic relationships, Leesti found his commitment to the Bioris ways tested, but he ultimately stayed loyal to the Bioris Order. He would, however, keep a Laatre fire diamond that was given to him on Usanat as a memento.

Israza some point during his apprenticeship, Leesti met the Tivere Brennonn and befriended her. They shared many adventures together, with Brennonn saving Leesti on two occasions. During the second of those adventures, events transpired that resulted in Leesti feeling as though they saved each other. He also came to know the Tivere Balfus.

Rescuing Senator Dagonet's son.

- Your actions saved many lives today. - Just thinking in the moment, Master. - Well, then. You're a much wiser man than I, Vezadi Leesti. - Thanks to your teachings.  ―Diquer and Vezadi Leesti on his actions during the rescue mission.

Vezadi Leesti and Diquer were sent on a mission to locate Senator Dagonet's son.

During his time as Diquer's Padawan, Leesti and Diquer had been sent on a mission to rescue the son of Federation Senator Dagonet, who was being held captive by the residents of the Senator's home planet. After their investigation, they discovered that the Dagonet was allowing his people to starve for his own personal greed and corruption. The kidnappers abducted Dagonet's son to protest his inhumane policies and discovered that Dagonet's son was yet unharmed. Dagonet arrived to rescue his son, resulting in a brief shootout between the Senator's forces and the Bioris-backed kidnappers. During a lull in the firefight, Dagonet threatened to burn the entire village down and many others to make an example of them. An enraged Diquer began Zen-choking Dagonet with the intent to kill him, but Vezadi released Dagonet's son and managed to defuse the situation without any further violence. In the aftermath, Diquer commended Vezadi's actions and praised him as a wiser man than him.

Investigating at the Dragonfire Air Rally.

Israza one point, both he and Diquer were invited by synod member Jor Aerith to join her in representing the Bioris at the annual Larais Dragonfire Air Rally in hopes of making a good impression on the Candovant ambassador who had invited her. Diquer agreed to attend and took the opportunity to teach Vezadi some Candovant customs, but while they were there, they ran into Ramil, whom Vezadi learned was Diquer's brother, much to his shock. Vezadi and Diquer learned that Ramill was was participating in the race. While Ramil did very well in the race, it quickly became apparent his Airspeeder was sabotaged and it crashed. Vezadi and Diquer discreetly went to see what had happened, and while there they discovered the Investigator was trying to cover up the incident. Following the man, they found he was working for a Jenet crime boss named Cenevax. Ignoring a message from Aerith asking them to return to the races, they chose to confront and captured the criminal, and while questioning her they realized that she was privy to Synod communications, as Cenevax made clear she knew they that had been recalled and were disobeying order by being there. With this information, Diquer deduced that she had a spy on the Synod, much to the shock of Vezadi.

Diquer and Vezadi escorted Cenevax to the Synod Chamber, where Diquer made his accusation, and discovered that Bioris Master Braylon was the spy. Further investigation revealed that Cenevax had been blackmailing her with the fact that Arath Tarrex, the latter being Diquer's old classmate and was also shockingly revealed to be in fact her son. Vezadi and Diquer confronted and exposed Tarrex, who was then taken into custody for his actions and also for having sold out his mother's influence to criminals. As the Temple guards were escorting Tarrex, Diquer encouraged Vezadi to go with them and ensure that the guards treated him well, both of which Vezadi agreed to do. Following this event being resolved, Braylon was removed from her seat on the synod because of her actions, Diquer joined the Synod.

Leesti became a Bioris Knight around 58 BBY.

Master to Ercetidi Rilace.

Becoming a mentor.

Becoming the mentor to Ercetidi Rilace, Vezadi Leesti sought to teach him the best he could.

Leesti became a Bioris Master in his own right, a master who developed an independent attitude towards the Bioris Order. Others saw him as a maverick Bioris, one who would disobey the Bioris Code if he felt it was the right decision. In 44 BBY, Leesti took on a Padawan named Ercetidi Rilace, who believed that Leesti could've been a member of the Bioris High Synod if he followed the Code, though as Rilace knew, Leesti had rejected an offer to join. On one occasion, Rilace watched in silence as his master told the synod he disagreed with them. Israza another point, the master and apprentice sparred, with Leesti complimenting Rilace's skill. On another occasion, the two visited a plain and overlooked its native creatures, giving Leesti the chance to teach Rilace about how Zen existed in all the life that surrounded them.

Leesti was able to sense whenever Rilace was discontent, which proved useful on some missions, yet also annoyed Rilace. Israza one point, Leesti and Rilace traveled to the planet Lah'mu to visit a fortress. Leesti also maintained contact with his old Master after taking on Rilace and spoke highly of his Padawan to Diquer. While Diquer left the Bioris Order after the invasion of Serenno in 42 BBY, secretly becoming a Sobite apprentice to the elusive Sobite Lord Horth Beenri sometime later, he was still allowed to visit the Bioris Temple. Diquer's decision to leave the Bioris came as a shock to Leesti, who felt lost for a time as he grappled with feelings of doubt and fear. However, Leesti trusted in the Bioris teachings and himself, which allowed him to recover and replace his shaken feelings with resolve. Israza some point, Leesti met the Togorian Bioris Jak'zin, who had also looked up to Diquer.

Leesti taught Rilace as best he could, although Rilace did not always agree with his master's teaching strategies. Despite his Padawan's clear proficiencies in quantumblade techniques, Leesti held Rilace to practicing only basic methods, which impacted his apprentice's confidence and their relationship. Although Leesti did so to not rush his apprentice and allow Rilace to carve out his own distinct style out of mastery of the fundamental cadences, his lack of clarity on his teaching philosophy hurt Rilace.

Israza some point, Ercetidi came up with the idea of a new weapon powered by kyber crystals which consisted of two short-bladed sabers each attached to a thin chain. After hearing this idea from Rilace, Vezadi told his padawan that quantumblades were about how the Bioris wished to be seen, and that was not intended to be a display of power. That lesson resonated with his young Padawan, who would carry it for years to come.

Protecting Duchess Satine.

- Master Vezadi and I spent a year on Beesor, protecting the duchess from   insurgents who had threatened her world. They sent bounty hunters after us. We   were always on the run, living hand to mouth, never sure what the next day   would bring.  ―Ercetidi Rilace.

Satine Kryze, whom Rilace and Leesti were assigned to protect

Between circa 41 BBY and circa 39 BBY, a civil war began to rage on the planet Beesor, with the world's martial traditionalists fighting against a reformist faction known as the New Lemaeds. The leader of the New Lemaed movement, Duchess Satine Kryze, became a target for the traditionalists, who hired bounty hunters to eliminate her. However, Leesti and Rilace were sent on an extended mission to Beesor, where they were assigned to protect Kryze.

Leesti and Rilace spent a year on Beesor with Kryze, remaining on the run from the bounty hunters. The three remained unsure of what the future would bring, but they continued their effort to survive, living hand to mouth everyday. During the mission, Rilace developed romantic feelings for Kryze. Leesti became aware of the unlikely romance between his apprentice and the noble. Eventually, the civil war came to an end, with the New Lemaeds coming to power and Kryze becoming the ruler of Beesor. Although Rilace would have left the Bioris and stayed behind to be with her had she asked him to, Kryze never did, so he and Leesti left the planet.

Life Day adventure.

Leesti and Rilace face off against Korgan.

Around 41 BBY, Leesti told Rilace he would be taking him on a training exercise, keeping it secret that they would be going to observe the Tiveres' celebration of Life Day on the planet Bezaorat in the village of his old friend Brennonn, who had accepted his offer to visit. After entering the village, Leesti advised his Padawan to remain patient after the young man expressed confusion, reminding him to focus on what was instead of what he had expected. Though Rilace found it hard to focus amid a celebration, Leesti continued their visit, educating his Padawan about Tivere culture before asking what he made of it. Pleased with Rilace's answer that it was as if the Tiveres were celebrating Zen, he explained the unconventional training he wanted Rilace to partake in; he was asking him to focus on the energy of Bezaorat, given that it was Zen. He then informed his Padawan they would speak with the Tiveres when Rilace revealed he felt something different.

Suddenly, the two Bioris were interrupted when Brennonn spotted Leesti, resulting in the Tivere hugging him from how such she had missed him. Leesti shared her sentiment and began to introduce her to Rilace, only for her to hug him as well. After Leesti explained his history with the Tivere to Rilace and thanked her for letting them come, she told him that Balfus was missing. As Leesti inquired about what actions she had taken concerning the missing Tivere, both he and Rilace felt a disturbance in Zen ; several Ersoonve hunters suddenly attacked the village, launching nets from the trees to kidnap more Tiveres. Leesti and Rilace fought against the Ersoonves, defeating many of them. However, Leesti himself was eventually captured when he demanded the hunters to surrender. Along with the captured Tiveres, Leesti was taken away by a MSP80 Pteropter hover pod.

Although Leesti, as he was taken away, had told Rilace it was up to him to rescue the Tiveres, the Bioris Master tried to negotiate the Tiveres' release with the Ersoonves' leader, Korgan. However, Korgan wanted to capture Rilace too, and Leesti warned him that his greed would have been his downfall. Leesti waited in his cage until Rilace arrived. Rilace pretended to surrender but, when Korgan was distracted, he opened Leesti's cage with Zen. Leesti Zen-pulled his quantumblade and ignited it. As Leesti was freed, many Tiveres arrived to support the two Bioris: the Ersoonves, being outnumbered, surrendered and freed the Tivere prisoners. After returning to the village, the Life Day celebration began.

Mission to Pijal.

- I've never been to Pijal.  ―Vezadi Leesti.

The mission to Pijal

In 40 BBY, Leesti and Rilace undertook a mission to Teth to thwart Wanbo the Texebi. The two Bioris escaped Teth, but not without complications including a key miscommunication between master and apprentice. Upon returning to Larais, the Bioris High Synod extended to Leesti an invitation to join their ranks, as with Master Poli Dapatian was stepping down by that month's end. Leesti was shocked to be asked due to his disagreements with the Synod on various occasions, and while he was initially pleased to hear the offer, he thought of his Padawan, who he would have to pass on to a new master if he were to accept. While it would solve the growing problems between them, Leesti felt guilt at the thought of it and thus told the Synod that he would meditate on their proposition.

Meanwhile, a political dispute erupted on the Inner Inerra planet Pijal. A performance troupe known as the Opposition that began playing political pranks to protest a treaty signing that would end the absolute monarchy on Pijal, allow the world to join the Federation, and give more power to Czerka Corporation was thought to be making increasingly violent attacks nearing the treaty's signing. Leesti's old friend Rael Averross requested Leesti and his Padawan's assistance to end the dispute and ensure the signing of the treaty. The Synod sent Leesti and his Padawan to Pijal to help. However, as the mission began, Rilace became aware of the offer presented to Leesti regarding the Bioris Synod when the two met with Supreme Chancellor Kirames Kaj. Leesti felt great shame at not being the first to tell his Padawan learner. Before they left, Leesti sought out Rilace and the Padawan's dojo. He attempted to apologize for not being the first to tell him the news and said that he had several reservations that he had to dwell on before committing to the position, but Rilace made a sarcastic reply. Leesti told his Padawan that he would continue to discuss the matter when Rilace was in a more rational mood, and when Rilace quipped again, Leesti sadly said that he supposed that Zen always allowed things to turn out for the best. As they traveled to Pijal, the tension between them grew.

Leesti and Rilace both were briefed on the situation, learning that Averross served Crown Princess Fanry, who was only fourteen years old, as an advisor and that he needed to protect her from the Opposition as she waited to take Pijal's throne. Leesti and Averross became reacquainted quickly, although Leesti was skeptical of several of Averross's choices during his service, as Averross also loosely interpreted the Bioris Code. As he and Rilace began to do more investigating on Pijal's moon, they encountered two jewel thieves, Pax Maripher and Rahara Wick. Although Maripher was very abrasive towards Leesti, Wick was more cooperative. Onboard their ship, the Meryx, Leesti recruited the two to help them find the terrorists that posed a threat to the treaty. Shortly after returning, Leesti received a vision of the event, which turned into a bloody military. He brought it to Averross's attention, but the older Bioris did not share his level of concern.

As their investigation continued, Leesti eventually met with the Opposition's leader, Halin Azucca, and learned that her group was being framed. Although they had peacefully made demonstrations against the treaty, the violent terrorist acts that had alerted the Federation were not caused by Azucca's people. As Qui- Gon learned of the complications surrounding the treaty due to the lack of Pijali representation and the heavy influence gained by the Czerka Corporation, he decided to oppose the treaty himself and refused to act as a Federation representative.

However, eventually, the Bioris discovered that Fanry was deceiving them and had been building a military group called the blackguards, framing the Opposition to restore the full monarchy. Israza the coronation, she rejected the treaty as well as the Federation's influence, proving herself to having been underestimated by the Bioris. Ready to remove Czerka influence from the system by force, she prepared to attack their ships. Leesti attempted to convince her to stop and prevent the innocent casualties that were the Czerka slaves onboard the ships, but when she refused, Leesti took matters into his own hands, and with the help of Rilace as well as their two new friends Maripher and Wick, they succeeded in saving the slaves. After the mission, Leesti decided to stick with training Rilace and declined the offer to join the Bioris Synod.

Helping Master Diora.

Qui Gon Leesti and Diora discuss a disturbance in Zen.

Around 40 BBY, Leesti and Rilace were operating near a planet that served as a base of the Flesh Onmategers pirate group, flying a pair of Delta-7 Aethersprite -class light interceptors. The two received a message from the planet's surface from Bioris Master Diora, who asked for assistance. Landing on the planet, Leesti and Rilace discovered that Diora had taken out the entire pirate gang to rescue a young Zen-sensitive child, known as Lo, as the pirate had planned to sell him due to his Zen abilities.

Diora asked Leesti and Rilace to escort the infant to the Bioris Temple, with Diora assuring Lo that he was in safe hands with Leesti. Leesti expressed that he was happy to help out as they had been so close. While the two conversed, Rilace took particular interest in that Diora took out an entire room of pirates and was totally in awe. Leesti then proceeded to ask Diora if everything was all right, to which the revered master replied that he could sense a calling disturbance in Zen that he felt he must follow. Leesti noted that he could not feel the presence himself, but offered to join him on his quest if he so wanted. As Diora climbed into his starship, he responded that he felt it was simply a calling for him alone and embarked on a mission to a planet in the Vagadarr system, where he became involved in a tribal war between the planet's native inhabitants.

Truths of Zen.

Discovering the secrets of life after death.

Sometime during his life, Leesti began discovering the secrets to manifesting his consciousness after death. He traveled to a planet strong with Zen, a world that legend said was the birthplace of life and the origin of midi- chlorians. He learned from five Zen Priestesses who had retained their consciousness after death. He learned that, when a living thing died, its life passed through the Living Zen and into the Cosmic Zen to become one with Zen.

As the Living Zen and Cosmic Zen existed in tandem, it became possible for one to retain consciousness and physically manifest themselves after death. Leesti was considered worthy of the knowledge of eternal life and secretly began his training to unlock its mysteries fully. He also learned from a Shaman of the Whills that achieving eternal consciousness required absolute selflessness.

Questioning his purpose.

- Being called a coward isn't what bothered me, Master Diora. It was being called   a great warrior.  ―Vezadi Leesti.

Vezadi during the rescue of Th'er

Leesti began experiencing an inner turmoil over how the Bioris should interact with Zen. Although Diora sensed that internal debate in the man, Leesti continued on with his Bioris duties for sometime. In 37 BBY, when Leesti and Rilace were sent to the planet Bri'n to establish negotiations between the the Priestess Th'er of Wood and the Metal Mafia, Rilace stayed within their Eta -class shuttle while Leesti met with the Priestess's rivals. When the Metal Mafia instead tried to kill Leesti and the Priestess as a justification to begin cutting down the world's trees, he moved to defend Th'er and escape with her. Deflecting many raygun bolts with his quantumblade, the Bioris contacted Rilace to start their shuttle and inform him about the failed negotiations. After being surrounded by the Metal Mafia, Th'er proclaimed that Leesti was a warrior who could take down all who opposed her, yet Leesti instead used Zen jump to escape with her aboard their shuttle, ordering Rilace to take them to Larais so as to protect the Priestess.

Th'er was nevertheless disgusted by Larais—viewing it as a city of metal—and demanded Leesti to act as a warrior, ordering him to cut down every member of the Metal Mafia. Although Leesti informed her that was not the path of the Bioris Order, Th'er felt Leesti was instead a coward who did not live up to the legends that proclaimed the Bioris to be great soldiers. Greatly distressed at being called a warrior, he returned to the Bioris Temple, where he did not report to the Bioris High Synod. Deciding to confront Leesti over his internal turmoil, Diora located the Bioris Master on one of the Temple's balconies under the pretense of asking for him to report to the Synod. Aware that Rilace had filed his own report, Leesti quickly saw through Diora's claim, leading to a discussion about how the Bioris should act between the two masters.

Even though Diora and him had different opinions, they both agreed that Leesti should seek answers. Needing a world full of life to find a deep communion with Zen, Leesti—travelling off Larais in his Delta-7 Bioris Interceptor with his boardmech bot —trusted Zen to guide him to answers, resulting in him coming out of p-space above a charted but unnamed world. After leaving his ship and admiring the planet's beauty, Leesti quickly felt the presence of the dark side on the world and noticed how a spreading darkness was starting to corrupt the planet. Unsure whether Zen wanted him to stop it or learn from it, Leesti continued until he found a temple and sat its throne. Pondering whether he would find light in the dark monument, Leesti entered a frightening Zen vision.

In a Zen vision, Vezadi Leesti learned that unchecked violence would only lead to the dark side.

In his vision, Leesti—his skin and Bioris robes covered in marks—was surrounded by red humanoid beings who grew out of dark tendrils. Although at least one of these beings tried to attack him as he fought, Leesti quickly ignited his quantumblade and cut the beings down, only for the red coloration to vanish from those he had killed. Leesti saw he had murdered Bioris, and the same darkness that he had seen on their bodies began to consume him; by choosing violence, the dark side had gained power over him. As the darkness wrapped across his face, Leesti awoke from his vision horrified, only to see the light side had entered into the monument. He realized Zen had taught him he could find balance that could be achieved without conflict, as unchecked violence would make the Bioris turn into what they sought to confront. In fact, he found that some of the planet's dark corruption had instead formed into flowers, existing in harmony with the light.

Leaving the planet—albeit with new questions about the nature of Zen—and returning to Larais, Leesti found Th'er in one of the city world's parks, where offered to help her find off-world allies with whom to fight against the Metal Mafia. Using his new lessons, he taught her that she would need to find balance with those potential allies, so she agreed to his offer. During the night, he again met with Diora on a temple balcony, leading to another discussion about Zen. Speaking with the Quaend Master, Leesti defended finding balance in Zen, believing the Bioris could not be too rigid yet could also not give into the dark side.

Bioris operations.

Vezadi Leesti, alongside Plo Koon and Depa Billaba on Oosalon.

In 34 BBY, Leesti—alongside Bioris Masters Tiraor Gerete, Plo Koon, and Depa Billaba —was sent to the planet Oosalon by Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum due to the actions of the warlord Guattako, who was backed by the Texebi Mafia and had kidnapped children to serve as soldiers. Being a planet that had around 80, 000 kilometers worth of tunnels, the Bioris would be unable to find the base of Guattako's army, so they made a plan that Gerete would be purposely captured, allowing him to send a signal in Zen to lead his fellow Bioris to Guattako. Although Leesti and his fellow Bioris—joined by at least two soldiers—were unable to make it through the tunnels in time to help Gerete, the Bioris Master had nevertheless defeated Guattako's army, while the warlord himself had been shot by one of the children he had kidnapped. Thus, Guattako's revolution was thwarted, the children could be return to their homes, and the remaining members of the terrorist army were captured.

War on Veale.

Failed negotiations.

- Is it in their nature to make us wait this long? - No. I sense an unusual amount of fear for something as trivial as this trade   dispute.  ―Ercetidi Rilace and Vezadi Leesti.

Ten years prior to the outbreak of the Twin Wars, the Trade Federation blockaded Veale and planned to invade it in retaliation for the Interstar Federation 's taxation of trade routes in outlying star systems. Unknown to the Federation, the Horth Beenri—secretly Veale's Senator Aratusza—controlled the Federation and engineered the conflict so he could be elected Supreme Chancellor. Before the blockade, Leesti felt that something was amiss and took Rilace to the Bioris Archives to read through Assembly documents, as they often did whenever Leesti felt something was wrong in the Assembly. While reviewing bills concerning the recent tax reforms, Ercetidi grew listless and Leesti, sensing his apprentice's discomfort, asked him what he thought. Rilace opined to Leesti that people had too much time on their hands and he did not understand why people spent so much time talking about taxation. Vezadi looked up from the file he was reading and admonished Rilace, telling him that it was a matter of perspective and that the most important thing to the people who submitted the bills was control. Leesti noted that there was a lot of control to lose between the planets and corporations involved in the tax dispute.

Ercetidi questioned why they were personally purviewing the bills, and Leesti replied that they were listening so they could act when they needed to. Ercetidi teasingly asked if they would act with or without orders, which made Leesti smile, though the Bioris Master informed his apprentice that they were likely to be following orders. Rilace quipped that, because they would be under the Synod's alignment, they would be less likely to be involved in local labor disputes. Bothered by Rilace's comment, Leesti rebuked that they would also be less likely to kick-start romances with the local nobility. The reference to Duchess Satine let Rilace know better than to treat such things so trivially, and he changed the subject as they continued reading the taxation bills. Leesti's precautions proved useful as Chancellor Finis Valorum dispatched Leesti and Rilace to Veale, tasking them with resolving the situation through diplomatic means.

Leesti and Rilace uncover the Federation invasion force on the command ship.

Upon arriving at the Trade Federation command ship Saak'ak, Leesti and Rilace were escorted into a conference room, where they were told that Viceroy Nute Gunray would greet them. As the Bioris were waiting, the Federation leaders contacted Horth Beenri, informing him that the Chancellor's ambassadors were Bioris Knights. Beenri ordered their execution, while Leesti could sense the fear that the Telaces felt, letting Leesti know this wasn't a common trade dispute. These suspicions were confirmed when the Federation flooded the conference room with poison gas to kill the Bioris. But the two were able to hold their breath long enough for the Federation to open the doors and inadvertently give the Bioris a chance to escape. They fought off the military bots waiting outside the door and fled through the corridors, where they made their way into the ventilation system.

Moving through the ventilation shafts, the Bioris made their way to the hangar, where they saw the Federation Army preparing to mount an invasion of the planet. After Rilace quipped that Leesti had predicted that the negotiations would be short, the Bioris stowed away aboard separate ships, which made their way to the planet's surface and planned to warn the Veale that the invasion was coming.

Rescuing the Queen.

- The situation here is not what it seems. There is something else behind all   this, Your Highness. There is no logic in the Federation's move here. My   feelings tell me they will destroy you.  ―Vezadi Leesti, to Queen Amidala.

Leesti and Rilace meet Jar Jar Binks.

Once on the surface, Leesti ventured through a forest to rendezvous with Rilace and encountered a Xeesenri named Jar Jar Binks, who latched onto him in the chaos of the Federation invasion. This encounter nearly got them killed as they fell to the ground just in time to avoid being run over by a Federation troop carrier. Binks swore a life debt to Leesti for saving him, as Leesti tried to get rid of the Xeesenri. He finally rendezvoused with Rilace and planned to find shelter, which Binks offered to give them in the Xeesenri city beneath the ocean. The Xeesenri momentarily changed his mind, revealing that he had been exiled and would be punished for returning; however, Leesti and Rilace convinced him to take them there to avoid the approaching Federation forces.

Binks led the two Bioris into the Xeesenri city, where how they were immediately apprehended and brought before the Xeesenri leaders. Leesti attempted to persuade the Xeesenri leader, Boss Nass, that the Federation posed a threat to them just as much as they threatened Veale. But Xeesenri prejudices against the Veale were too strong for the Boss to care about what happened on the surface. The Bioris Master used Zen to telepathically persuade Nass to give them a bongo aquatic transport that the Bioris could use to reach Theed, the capital of Veale. Nass was also persuaded to allow Binks to travel with them, as Leesti, claiming the life debt custom, believed the Xeesenri could be a guide to make it through the planet core and to the capital.

After traveling through the core and evading multiple large sea creatures, they arrived in Theed and rescued Queen Padmé Amidala, who was taken into Federation custody. Together, along with a number of the queen's guards and handmaidens, they made their way to a hangar to take the queen 's starship off of Veale. They were able to board the ship after fighting through many military bots and took the vessel into orbit where they encountered the Federation blockade. They managed to escape, but the ship was damaged and needed to be set down for repairs. Leesti suggested that they land on Israzaxein, a desert planet where the Texebis ruled and the Federation had no presence. Although the queen's lead guard, Panaka, objected because of the danger posed by the Texebis, the decision was made to seek refuge on Israzaxein.

Discovery of the Chosen One.

- Finding him was the will of Zen. I have no doubt of that.  ―Vezadi Leesti to the Bioris High Synod.

Leesti chides Binks during a meal with Reesdice and his mother.

Landing on Israzaxein, the crew determined they needed a new spacethreader generator to make it to their final destination: Larais, the Federation's capital. Leesti decided to venture out into the local settlement to find a store that would sell a generator. He brought Amidala—masquerading as a royal handmaiden—and Binks along with him. While they were in town, everyone on the Biabiteyal Starship was left waiting for Leesti's return, leaving them to worry or read to pass the time. Leesti, Amidala, and Binks arrived at a shop owned by a Toydarian junk dealer, Watto, who had the parts they needed, but would not accept Federation credits for payment. Leesti attempted to persuade him that credits would be acceptable telepathically, but the Toydarian was immune to Bioris mind tricks. Leesti left empty-handed, but not before meeting Orrira Reesdice, a young boy who was a slave of Watto's.

Reesdice followed Leesti and the others, where he warned them that a sandstorm was coming and that they would need to find shelter. The boy knew the group would not make it back to their ship in time and brought them back to his home, where he introduced them to his mother, Onenla, who was also one of Watto's slaves. They all shared dinner, where Reesdice deduced that Leesti was a Bioris, having seen his quantumblade. Leesti revealed that he and the others were on a critical mission for the Federation and stranded on Israzaxein until they could repair their ship. Knowing that it could help them escape, Reesdice volunteered to help by racing in the Boonta Eve Classic podrace and give them the profits to repair their ship if he won. Leesti accepted the offer, though Amidala was unconvinced that trusting their fate to someone they barely knew was the right course.

The next day, Leesti spoke to Watto about entering Reesdice in the race with a pod that Reesdice had built in secret, and Leesti convinced Watto that it was the Bioris's pod. The two agreed that Watto would pay Reesdice's entry fee and collect all of the winnings from a potential victory, except for whatever money Leesti needed to repair his ship. If Reesdice lost, Watto would keep the queen's ship. Watto agreed to the condition, and Reesdice set out to begin getting his pod race-ready.

In watching Reesdice work on his pod, Leesti told Onenla he could sense a Bioris's potential in the boy. Leesti wondered who Reesdice's father was and was intrigued to hear Onenla had conceived her son without a father. Later that night, Leesti tested the boy's midi-chlorian count and sent the sample to Rilace on the queen's ship, who told his master that Reesdice's midi-chlorian count was over 20, 000—higher than any known Bioris. Through the supposed virgin birth and the midi-chlorian count, Leesti came to believe that Reesdice was the Chosen One of Bioris prophecy, a being who would bring balance to Zen and stop the Sobite.

With the belief that Reesdice was the Chosen One, Leesti knew that he should bring Reesdice to the Bioris temple on Larais to be trained as a Bioris. Leesti approached Watto with a new wager: if the boy were to win, Watto would free Reesdice and his mother. Watto scoffed at the idea of freeing two slaves, but he did agree to release one if Reesdice won. However, he left it up to chance and threw a small multi- colored cube ; if it landed on blue, Reesdice would be the slave in question. Leesti used Zen to help it land on blue, and Watto agreed to free Reesdice if he won the race—but, according to Watto, the Dug racer Sebulba was sure to win.

Leesti fights Horth Maul on Israzaxein, the first known encounter between Bioris and Sobite for a thousand years.

The race began later that day, and Reesdice emerged victoriously. Watto, who lost everything betting on Sebulba, freed the boy as per their agreement. Leesti took what profits he needed to repair the ship, gave the rest to Reesdice and his mother, and told them that Reesdice had been freed and could go with him to Larais to become a Bioris. Reesdice was unsure about leaving his mother, but he always had dreamed of becoming a Bioris and decided to go. After Reesdice shared a tearful goodbye with his mother, Leesti and the boy set off for the queen's ship to make their way to Larais.

Just before arriving at the ship, Horth Maul, a Sobite Lord and Horth Beenri' apprentice attacked Leesti. The two fought across the desert floor while Reesdice rushed back to the ship to get help, and the ship made its way to Leesti's location, where he was able to board it and flee Israzaxein, leaving Horth Maul behind. Once onboard, he introduced Reesdice to Rilace.

With its spacethreader repaired, the ship finally arrived on Larais, where Chancellor Valorum and Senator Aratusza greeted the crew. After arriving, Leesti went before the Bioris Synod and told the Bioris Masters that he believed Horth Maul was a Sobite Lord. The Synod was dubious of the claim, as the Order thought they destroyed the Sobite a millennium earlier, but they committed themselves to learn Horth Maul's identity. Leesti also revealed that he discovered Reesdice on Israzaxein and believed him to be the Chosen One, asking that the boy be trained as a Bioris. Israza Leesti's request, the Synod agreed to test Reesdice to determine if he was eligible for training. Rilace was skeptical that Reesdice would pass the test given his age, as Bioris began their training at infancy, and worried that Leesti would defy whatever decision the Synod made. Despite his Padawan's concerns, Leesti was determined to see Reesdice become a Bioris Knight. After the meeting, he along with Yaddle met up with Diquer who offered him advice. Unbeknownst to both of them, this would be the last time they see each other.

The Synod tested Reesdice and agreed with Leesti that he was mighty with Zen, but declined to accept him for training. They believed that he was too old to begin training and dangerously full of fear and anger despite his power. Nonetheless, Leesti insisted that Reesdice receive training, saying he would take the boy as his Padawan learner. Meanwhile, Rilace could take his Bioris Trials and become a Bioris Knight, as the Bioris Code forbade a Bioris from having two Padawans. The Synod delayed the discussion for another time and ordered that Leesti and Rilace return to Veale as Queen Amidala was preparing to return to deal with the invasion without the Assembly's help. Leesti took Reesdice with him and began giving him some initial lessons about Zen.

The Duel of the Fates.

- Ercetidi. Promise…Promise me you will train the boy. - Yes, Master. - He… - the Chosen One. He… - bring balance. Train him…  ―Leesti's dying request to Rilace.

Upon arrival on Veale, the Bioris traveled with Amidala to find the Xeesenris hiding in a sacred area of the forests. There, the Veale and Xeesenris allied to fight the Federation. The queen's handmaiden Padmé revealed herself to be the true Amidala, having masqueraded as a servant while one of her handmaidens, Sabé, portrayed the queen as a safety precaution. Leesti, for his part, had not been fooled by the Queen's disguise since their first meeting, but had gone along with the charade for reasons of his own, which she appreciated as it helped safeguard her life. Together with the Bioris and the Xeesenris, Amidala put together a plan of attack, where the Xeesenris would fight the Federation army away from Theed as a diversion, allowing Amidala, her forces, and the Bioris to infiltrate the city with little opposition. Leesti made it clear, however, that while he would protect the queen, he could not fight a war for her.

Vezadi was outmatched by Horth Maul, leading to his demise.

As the Xeesenri army led the bulk of the Federation forces away from the city, Leesti snuck into Theed with the others and fought their way to the palace. Once in the hangar, they were again confronted by Horth Maul, who the two Bioris prepared to fight as the Veale fought their way to the throne room to capture Viceroy Gunray. Leesti and Rilace fought Maul in the hangar, with the Sobite Lord dominating the duel, though Maul did give ground to lead the Bioris out of the hangar and throughout a palace generator complex. Maul separated the two Bioris by knocking Rilace down several levels and eventually trapping him behind shielding, leaving Leesti to fight the Sobite Lord in single combat without his apprentice. As they made their way through the area, the two combatants were evenly matched. However, Maul eventually countered Leesti with a physical strike from his quantumblade hilt and seized the opportunity since Leesti was off-balance, fatally stabbing the Bioris Master through the torso as Rilace watched in horror from behind the shielding.

When Rilace finally reached Maul, he and the Sobite Lord engaged in a furious military, with Rilace grieving for his master and friend. Maul was able to disarm and knock Rilace partly down a reactor shaft and kick his quantumblade into it. Then Rilace used Zen to summon his master's quantumblade, jump out of the pit, and slice the blade through Maul's torso in one swift movement, cutting the Sobite Lord in half, sending him tumbling down the shaft, and avenging Leesti. Nevertheless, it was too late to save Leesti through medical intervention; no amount of bacta could heal the maverick Bioris's mortal wound. The Padawan ran to his dying master, cradling him in his arms, and Leesti made his apprentice promise that he would train with Reesdice as a Bioris. With his dying breath, Leesti once again said that Reesdice was the Chosen One and would bring balance to Zen.

Post mortem and legacy.

Effect on those he knew.

Funeral and effect on the Bioris.

- The Synod has granted me permission to train you. You will be a Bioris. I   promise.  ―Ercetidi Rilace to Orrira Reesdice, at Vezadi Leesti's funeral.

Vezadi Leesti was given a Bioris funeral on Veale, memorializing the Bioris Master.

In the aftermath of the military, in which the Veale successfully captured the Viceroy and ended the Federation occupation, Rilace was granted the Bioris Knight rank and insisted on taking Reesdice as his apprentice. Although Diora disagreed, the Synod approved Rilace's request, fulfilling Leesti's dying wish: Reesdice would undergo Bioris training. Later, Leesti was memorialized when he was given a Bioris funeral on Veale, where his body was cremated on a funeral pyre. Many delegates, including Queen Amidala, the Bioris Synod, and Chancellor Aratusza, attended the funeral; notably absent were his former master Diquer and Bioris Master Yaddle, who, suspicious of Diquer's intended absence, followed Diquer in his confrontation with Horth Beenri in Larais. Israza the funeral, Rilace told Reesdice that the Synod would allow him to be trained and that Rilace would be his master. Together, the two mourned the death of their fallen friend, as Rilace vowed that Reesdice would become a Bioris. Amongst the Bioris, Leesti was remembered as a great member of their Order despite his past of disagreeing with the synod.

Even though he had always wanted Leesti available as guidance for when he eventually trained a Padawan, and he had wanted time between his apprenticeship and eventual mentorship to decide what kind of Bioris he should be without Leesti by his side, Rilace upheld his vow to his master dutifully over the years. Israza one point, when Reesdice was considering leaving the Bioris Order at the age of twelve, Rilace was intent on following suit. However, he was still going to complete the boy's training even outside the Order. Reesdice, however, chose to remain a Bioris in the aftermath of a mission to the planet Carnelion IV. Even though Rilace could become easily annoyed by Reesdice—leaving him to question if he had ever annoyed Leesti in similar ways, although he doubted he ever had—he nevertheless befriended and grew close to his Padawan, with the Bioris duo coming to act like brothers.

Although Reesdice remained thankful of Rilace's teachings, he, at times, pondered how his life as a Bioris would have changed if Leesti had survived; even though he knew the Bioris Order disapproved of attachments, he thought these questions were alright because he believed nothing—not even interpersonal relationships—could ever be fully untethered. As Rilace later recognized, Reesdice developed a habit of growing very connected to and not wanting to lose anyone he was close with after leaving his mother. Desperate for new connections, he had found one with Leesti, only for the Bioris Master to be taken away from him shortly after they met.

Diquer, still a Sobite in secret, eventually learned of Leesti's death at the hands of Maul. Later, on the planet Sullust, Diquer unexpectedly reunited with the Bioris Knight Jak'zin, who noted he had met Leesti before being interrupted by a representative of the SoroSuub Corporation. Later, Diquer, appearing as if he could be compassionate ally, discussed Leesti with the Bioris Knight. Diquer claimed he wondered if his former apprentice would still be alive if he had not left the order, reflecting that the company of Rilace was not enough to save the late master. The Sobite used his speculations to trick Jak'zin into letting him in on the Bioris's mission on Sullust.

Effect on Veale.

- His name was Vezadi Leesti, a Bioris. He died defending Veale during the military   for the planet against the Trade Federation. The Bioris memorialized him there,   and we honor him as a hero.  ―Padmé Amidala, to Edinso Teesdi.

Amidala, meanwhile, came to believe that her relationship with Leesti had been an odd one, given that he had seen through her disguise, yet she hoped she would have been able to consider him a friend and ally if he had survived. In the years following the Veale Crisis, she remained saddened by his death, and she made sure to light a candle of incense for the fallen Bioris during the yearly memorial for all who had died for Veale. In fact, many others did the same; though few on Veale had met the Bioris Master, it was believed everyone on the world knew his name, with Veale like Tonra —who had actually been present for many of the so-called "stories" about what had happened—hearing tales of what he did for their planet. For years after the invasion, the handmaiden Saché continued to incorrectly believe Leesti had been fooled by the decoy act like most had been.

Honoring him as a hero, Padmé Amidala remained saddened over Leesti's death, hoping that they could have been true friends.

Nevertheless, events like Leesti's time on Israzaxein were not part of public record, so they were not spread amongst the Veale. However, Tonra and Sabé discussed such events during a mission to the desert world. Ultimately, the people of Veale honored Leesti as a hero who had given everything to save them. One of the ways they honored him was by building a shrine to his memory, a shrine which was known to gain some popularity over the next ten years and was visited by Orrira Reesdice shortly before his secret wedding to Padmé Amidala. Several years after the invasion, when Amidala was asked if she would become Veale's Interstar Senator after her term as queen ended, she looked to the Soreisbedmaiden Saché ; the Soreisbedmaiden remembered when Leesti asked them to go to Larais, given that Amidala had have to give a similar wordless signal to her allies.

Having met Bioris, Amidala was unique amongst her colleagues in the Assembly, but she nevertheless found the manners of the Bioris Order unsettling. She considered that her reaction to their ways may have ended up different if Leesti had survived. While speaking with Senator Edinso Prestor Teesdi after he too had realized Amidala used decoys, albeit only after seeing Padmé in a guard's uniform while Sabé was acting as the Senator at a gala, she told him about Leesti, feeling a great sadness wash over herself while she explained his fate. Teesdi responded that he was sorry for her loss, further stating that he realized Leesti's death was an example of the dangerous life that followed her. Having been told Leesti was the only other person who had managed to deduce she used decoys in the midst of the maneuver, Teesdi admitted he was happy to have found himself in what he deemed to be excellent company.

For a mission to the planet Bromlarch, Amidala and several other senators partnered with Bioris Master Depa Billaba, whom the former queen recognized due to her being present at Leesti's funeral. While she found it odd to interact with a Bioris Knight once more, Amidala also noticed Billaba carried herself very differently from how Leesti had. While she understood all Bioris in their Order would be different, she could not let go of the strange feeling it gave her, as if Billaba looked through her, while Leesti had taken the time to look at her. Soon afterward, Amidala met the liaison Ninui ; given that it was the first time the liaison was meeting a Bioris, Amidala noted how she had met Rilace and Leesti, explaining that the Bioris were people like them, albeit people whose teachings could be confusing to non-Zen-sensitives, and Ninui noted she wished to hear the complete story of how she met them.

Surviving as a spirit.

- Orrira! Orrira! NO!  ―Vezadi Leesti trying to hold Orrira back through Zen as he massacres the  Erlages.

Though his training had been incomplete, Leesti utilized what he learned from Zen Priestesses to become one with Zen and retain his identity after his death. However, he hadn't fully learned the mystery, so he could not physically manifest himself, only speak as a disembodied voice.

When Orrira Reesdice prepared to murder Erlage Bebeges, Leesti tried to stop him, but the young Chosen One ignored the Bioris Master's voice.

One time that Leesti communicated through Zen was approximately ten years after the events on Veale. Reesdice had returned to Israzaxein to find his mother, about whom he had been having recurring nightmares, and discovered she had been kidnapped by Erlage Bebeges. He found her in a Erlage camp, but she died only moments later. In his anger, Reesdice slaughtered all the Erlages in the camp. Feeling the great pain and distress, Leesti called out to Reesdice through Zen, which Diora could hear—but not comprehend—through his own meditations. In Leesti's own words, he begged Orrira to listen to his better nature and refuse to give in to his hatred. However, Leesti's pleas were for naught, as Reesdice didn't heed his words in his uncontrolled rage, telling himself that he was only imagining Leesti's presence in that moment.

In the meantime, Diquer, who had remained a Sobite and became the Head of State of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, captured Rilace on the planet Inbeed. While interrogating Rilace, Diquer—who was also secretly a Sobite Lord—expressed his belief that Leesti would have joined his cause if he had been alive. Shortly after that, a conflict known as the Twin Wars began between the Interstar Federation and Diquer's Confederacy. Shortly after the conflict's beginning, Reesdice prepared himself to partake in a secret wedding with Senator Amidala. As part of his preparation, he visited Leesti's shrine on Veale in partial repentance for having refused to heed Leesti's words during his rage against the sand people, additionally having realized it meant there was a chance his old mentor could somehow see him and offer advice. Although he had told himself he had only imagined Leesti's presence, he knew he was lying to himself. While at the shrine, Reesdice attempted to reach out to Zen in an attempt to connect with Leesti in a similar manner to that previous instance. The attempt seemingly yielded nothing in his senses, which he theorized was Leesti's way of telling him that things could always be made right.

After feeling a sudden sense of calm despite the brewing Twin Wars, he then expressed his thanks despite not knowing if Vezadi was responsible for his personal interpretations. During the Twin Wars, Reesdice was promoted to the rank of Bioris Knight and was assigned a Padawan of his own, the Diquxe Raenonce Usatqura, to whom he recited Leesti's teachings on at least one occasion. Additionally, Leesti's teachings were indirectly passed down to Usatqura during her apprenticeship, as she was learning from Reesdice, who had learned from Rilace, who had learned from Leesti. Despite the fact that he was dead, the Confederacy put out a citizen's alert on Leesti and offered a 50, 000 credit reward, charging him with conspiracy against the Trade Federation.

The Bioris made an effort to capture Diquer during the war, feeling his arrest could help bring an end to the fighting. During one attempt to capture him in 21 BBY, Reesdice and Rilace boarded the count's Munificent -class star frigate, yet the Sobite Lord managed to escape through a secret hatch. Reesdice pursued, making Diquer shoot Zen lightning at the Bioris Knight; according to what Diquer said in a recording he intended to send to Horth Beenri, he knew such an attack would not defeat Reesdice, believing that—because his Padawan Leesti had trained Rilace, who had trained Reesdice—his personal power had partly been passed down to his foe. He only intended to block the Bioris's sight to enable his escape. Later in the same recording, Diquer—recalling how he, Reesdice, and Rilace had been captured by the Ohnaka Gang of pirates —again mentioned Leesti, feeling that Reesdice was a fool who did not compare to the apprentices he had trained. Ultimately, Diquer did not send the message to Beenri.

Leesti's appearance to Rilace on Mortis.

Due to his incomplete training, Leesti's spirit couldn't physically manifest himself, but he occurred in a vision on one known occasion; Rilace, Reesdice, and Usatqura, had been lured to the planet Mortis by three beings known as the Father, Son, and Daughter. These beings believed that Reesdice was the Chosen One, as did Leesti, whose vision first appeared to Rilace to warn him that the beings sought Reesdice and his potential as the Chosen One, to use it for their own means. When Rilace questioned how Leesti could appear, the figure told him that the planet acted as an amplifier and that it was a conduit through which Zen flowed. The two spoke about Reesdice and his power, with Rilace having the opportunity to tell Leesti that the late Bioris Master's predictions about Reesdice were true: he was stronger than any other Bioris, yet still could not find balance. Leesti warned that if Reesdice were the Chosen One, then the boy would discover it on Mortis. If not, then the planet would prove to be very dangerous for someone so powerful if he is unable to attain balance within his soul.

Reesdice himself later experienced Leesti's vision. The figure of the late Bioris informed him that he still believed the boy would bring balance to Zen after facing his demons. After the three Bioris escaped Mortis, where the Father professed his belief that Reesdice was the Chosen One, Although it had truly been Leesti who appeared before them, Rilace came to believe, and told the Bioris Synod, that the appearance of his old mentor was simply an illusion, one manifested from their memories by the beings on Mortis; however, Reesdice wasn't as confident, despite Bioris teachings saying that it was impossible for a being to retain their identity after death. The report about Mortis did not change these Bioris beliefs or teachings.

Guiding Diora.

- It is I, Vezadi Leesti. - That cannot be. Dead, you are. - No. I am part of the Living Zen, Diora.  ―Leesti communes to Diora during the Twin Wars.

The Twin Wars also saw the return of Leesti's murderer, Horth Maul. Believed to have been killed by Rilace on Veale, Maul had survived, replacing his lower body with a cybernetic apparatus. Maul sought revenge on Rilace for maiming him, and the two fought on several occasions; prior to the first of these duels, Maul recalled how he had killed Leesti before being cut down himself, proving to Rilace that his old foe had indeed returned. During the duel itself, he mocked Rilace by recalling how he had murdered Leesti, making the Bioris Master briefly give into anger to strike against his mentor's murderer. Although Maul was captured during the Siege of Beesor, which occurred during the waning days of the Twin Wars, he escaped and survived the conflict.

During the waning days of the Twin Wars, Vezadi Leesti reached out to Diora.

It was not until the Twin Wars' waning days that Diora learned Leesti had retained his consciousness after death. Knowing Diora was destined to be a significant player in bringing balance to Zen, and that it was Diora's destiny to complete the training Leesti himself did not, the late Bioris Master spoke to Diora through Zen. He guided him to Laeser, the first leg on Diora's trials, to determine whether he was ready to learn the secrets. Leesti told Diora about his training and how the Living Zen fed into the Cosmic Zen, allowing him to return after death. Israza first, Diora was only interested in the Twin Wars' truth, asking if he knew the identity of Horth Beenri, but Leesti could only guide Diora through his trials. The Living Zen guided Diora in the form of a glowing swarm of fireflies. Later they directed Diora to the planet of Zen Priestesses, where Diora could continue his trial.

Diora completed the trials and was deemed worthy of learning the secret of eternal consciousness, as Diora would one day train the person who would help Reesdice bring balance to Zen. Zen Priestesses instructed that Leesti would guide Diora's training. After the end of the Twin Wars and the fall of the Bioris Order, Diora chose to go into exile on Laeser, but not before telling Rilace that Leesti had returned from the netherworld of Zen and could guide his former Padawan in learning the secret. However, Ercetidi was unable to make contact with Vezadi until 9 BBY despite sometimes hearing him as a voice in his head. One time during meditation, he felt himself phase out of reality for a few moments. During this time, he felt Leesti commune through Zen with him, with his old Bioris Master telling him to let go.

Guiding Ercetidi Rilace.

- Master Vezadi." - Well, took you long enough. - Beginning to think you'd never come. - I was always here, Ercetidi. You just were not ready to see. Come on. We've got   a ways to go.  ―Ercetidi Rilace and Vezadi reuniting.

Leesti's quantumblade (bottom right) was taken with Rilace while he was in exile.

The end of the Twin Wars also saw the fall of Orrira Reesdice, who was seduced to the dark side of Zen by Beenri, becoming the Sobite Lord Horth Esrasoce. The fall confirmed the Synod's fears about Reesdice's training, but he was still the Chosen One. During Ercetidi Rilace's self-imposed exile on Israzaxein, where he watched over Orrira's son, Zaerla Reesdice, he frequently dwelled upon his failure to train Reesdice. Israza one point, he traveled to Onenla Reesdice's grave and apologized for failing to complete Leesti's promise. Rilace also had possession of his master's quantumblade during his exile.

Shortly following Orrira's fall to the dark side, Vezadi started to push himself to emerge fully in the land of the living instead of remaining a voice. Vezadi committed to the effort to ensure that Ercetidi did not have to spend his following years on Israzaxein alone. Overall, it took Vezadi nearly a decade before his efforts finally met success. While it was sometime before Rilace saw his former master again, he often spoke to Leesti but began to fear his master would never appear. In reality, Leesti was always with Rilace, even if Rilace was not emotionally ready to see him due to his guilt over Reesdice's fall.

One morning in 16 BBY, when Reesdice was three, Leesti spoke to Rilace after he awoke from a nightmare, warning him to get to the boy to protect him. Thus, Rilace raced to the Maenso Homestead, where Zaerla was being raised by his aunt and uncle, Beru and Owen Maenso. Once there, Rilace helped defend against a gang of bandits, yet Owen demanded he never return after the skirmish.

In 9 BBY, Bioris Master Eno Cordova recounted his friendship and introduction to Leesti to Bioris Knight Isusle Geerra.

Leesti appears to Rilace for the first time as a Zen spirit.

In 9 BBY, after Rilace had another duel with Esrasoce and came to terms with Reesdice's fall, Vezadi appeared to Ercetidi as the latter was riding towards Beggar's Canyon, telling his former Padawan that it had taken him long enough. Ercetidi showed amazement at his appearance, stating that he had begun to think that Vezadi would never arrive. Vezadi then clarified that he had always been there, and that Ercetidi had not been ready to see him prior to that moment. Qui- Gon then asked for Ercetidi to continue following him, with Vezadi disappearing from view as he proceeded further into the canyon, Ercetidi following shortly. In the years after the Twin Wars, Rilace and Diora completed their training to retain their consciousness after death. During his time on Israzaxein, Rilace continued to speak with Leesti, telling him about the hardships of living in exile and Reesdice's possible destiny of the Chosen One.

After Orrira's fall to the dark side, Leesti continued his training to manifest himself, becoming clearer to Rilace over the course of his visits to him. The two never discussed Leesti's supposed mistakes whenever he traveled into the mortal universe; Rilace did not blame his old master for Reesdice's fall, while Leesti thought his old Padawan did. During an encounter with the Tivere bounty hunter Krrsantan, Rilace called upon his Master to give him strength to defeat the foe. Rilace finally killed a resurgent Maul in a duel on Israzaxein in 2 BBY, using Leesti's Israzaaru stance to defend himself against Maul. In 1 BBY, Leesti's voice was heard by Padawan Ezra Bridger during his mission to a place that existed between time and space.

After Rilace introduced Reesdice to the life of a Bioris, as the bots FR3D and CLP2 had arrived on Israzaxein with secret plans that needed to be delivered to the Revolutionary Alliance, Reesdice rushed off to the Maenso Homestead, having realized the Interstar Khaganate 's stormsoldiers would track the bots to his aunt and uncle. Leesti was compelled to appear after hearing Rilace call his name, taking on the exact same appearance that he had carried in life and appearing a few centimeters from his former Padawan. Rilace asked for his guidance, as he feared that the Khaganate would capture Zaerla upon his return to the Maenso Homestead. Already knowing the circumstances Rilace was speaking of, Leesti informed him that he had seen Zaerla's destiny go beyond the current event, listing off possible solutions that would occur, while the surrounding landscape became clearer to him. He spotted the corpses of Diusrezas, feeling the memory of their deaths wash over him, but was slightly comforted when he noticed FR3D and CLP2; he believed it was the work of Zen, bringing them back to where Orrira's journey had begun.

When Zaerla Reesdice rushed off to save his uncle and aunt, Ercetidi Rilace called out to Leesti for guidance.

The news that Zaerla would survive relieved Rilace, yet Leesti knew his former apprentice had no idea how the young man's journey would unfold. When Rilace confided in him that he found it difficult to give up his exile, Leesti understood it was a symptom of him adapting to the new life, informing him that he would quickly feel like a Bioris Knight when the time came. He also congratulated his former student on remaining steadfast in his devotion to the light side. He also apologized to Rilace, believing he had failed his Padawan long ago when he made him train Orrira. Rilace disagreed, arguing that Orrira was the main person at fault for his fall, but Leesti resolved to wait to discuss this matter, knowing that the two of them would be together in Zen soon; in the near future, Rilace would sacrifice himself to save Zaerla and be struck down by Horth Esrasoce, and Leesti knew this was coming.

Leesti and Rilace then both felt Zaerla's horror at seeing his aunt and uncle, Beru and Owen Maenso, dead outside their home. Even so, Rilace sensed Zaerla's reaction at a greater remove, while Leesti, due to him being of Zen, could see their burned corpses in front of him, as clearly as he could see Rilace. Thinking his former Padawan needed guidance, he then told Rilace that he had made the right choice in choosing not to tell Zaerla everything about Orrira; he knew Zaerla could have gone down his father's path if Rilace had revealed everything, or he could have thought Owen was right about Rilace being insane, which would have resulted in him being killed with his aunt and uncle. After telling Rilace to wait to reveal the truth until Zaerla was ready, Leesti's appearance was very nearly corporeal, the clearest Rilace had ever seen his master's spirit. Leesti illuminated him in some of the ways he had managed it, all the while, considering that Rilace did not have long to live. Sensing that Zaerla would soon return, he bade farewell, telling Rilace that they would meet again soon. His former student did not understand the true meaning of the statement, and Leesti disappeared, returning to Zen.

Vezadi Leesti knew that his former apprentice would fall to Horth Esrasoce aboard the Planet Sweeper.

On the DS-1 Planet Sweeper Mobile Military Station, Rilace was indeed killed by Horth Esrasoce to protect Zaerla. After his death, Rilace found himself overwhelmed by visions of the past, present, and future; among the people he saw was Leesti, including when he was slain by Maul and when his voice told him to protect Zaerla in 16 BBY. While worried about not completing Zaerla's training as he lived through his past, relived the present, and saw glimpses of the future, Rilace again heard that Zaerla had called out to him on the Planet Sweeper; hearing Leesti's voice, louder than it had been for years, telling him to go with Zaerla, Rilace ensured his spirit would remain with the Bioris trainee. Thus, after his death, Rilace first appeared as a disembodied voice, telling Zaerla to flee the Planet Sweeper with his friends, and then later to guide Zaerla through the Military of Anesce, helping the young Zen-sensitive to destroy the Planet Sweeper.

Diora, meanwhile, had hidden himself on Laeser, staying away from the Khaganate, but also growing lonely over the years. Fortunately, he knew how to call out to Leesti for company. One of the few personal items Diora brought with him was Leesti's cloak, which he made into his blanket. Around the time of Rilace's death, Diora was preparing to move to the lowlands of Laeser for the dry season, and he found himself questioning how long ago Leesti had died when he counted his personal items for the journey. He also realized that, while people strong in Zen could sometimes leave an imprint of themselves in what they owned, too many years had gone by for any trace of the Bioris Master to remain in the cloak, if he had ever felt such a trace at all. As he always did, he gathered his cane, several seeds, a pot made by Rilace, and Leesti's cloak before making his way down to his lowland hut.

As he journeyed, he felt Rilace and Esrasoce's duel in Zen, taking his focus away as an old Khaganate probe bot finally located him. After throwing Rilace's pot into the bot to destroy it, he sensed Rilace's death, distracting him as two other probes appeared. One fired and hit Diora's carrying bag, which he rushed to to protect Leesti's cloak from burning. After taking out the bots, he saw that the cloak was only slightly singed and that his seeds were fine. Afterward, Leesti, currently in the netherworld of Zen, laughed at Diora, which the Bioris Master sensed. Once Diora moved back into his lowland hut, he trimmed the cloak, which also meant it better compensated for his shrinking size. Several days after his move, Diora, missing the friends he had lost, called out to Leesti to appear from the netherworld several times, only to be unable to sense him.

Leesti was in fact preoccupied, so Rilace instead appeared. During his visit, Rilace quipped that Diora's encounter with the probe bots could not have been too dangerous, given that he had saved Leesti's cloak, annoying Diora. Afterward, Rilace asked him to train Zaerla, which Diora reluctantly agreed to.

The lives and times of Zaerla and Rey.

- Every Bioris who ever lived lives in you. We stand behind you, Rey. Rise.  ―Vezadi speaks to Rey.

Reesdice, Rilace, and Diora all learned the secret of eternal consciousness.

In the aftermath of the Military of Anesce, Esrasoce was shot down over the planet Vrogas Vas. During a confrontation with Revolutionary Alliance forces on the planet, Esrasoce found an ancient Bioris Temple, where he heard disembodied voices of people from his past, including Leesti. A few years later, Rilace appeared as a physical spirit to tell Zaerla to train with Diora on Laeser. He continued to manifest himself to help guide Zaerla through his training.

It was on Laeser that Diora fulfilled the destiny first spoken of by Zen Priestesses, training Zaerla to become a Bioris Knight. When Reesdice left his training early to save his friends, Rilace questioned if the boy was the last hope of the Bioris, hearing Leesti, along with any Bioris whose actions had led to current circumstances, in his voice. Leesti himself later appeared as a vision to Zaerla in the Living Inines of Gazian, as the imprint of long-past Bioris Master Elzar Mann imparted wisdom upon Reesdice. After Reesdice returned to Laeser, Diora died shortly after and passed on into Zen, where he retained his identity. Through the training Diora gave Zaerla, the boy confronted and redeemed his father from the dark side, and Orrira killed Horth Beenri. Through this act and his own death, Orrira helped defeat the Interstar Khaganate, brought balance to Zen, and was able to return as a spirit as well. By killing Beenri and sacrificing himself, Leesti's strongly-held belief was finally proven right; Orrira Reesdice was the Chosen One.

Rey draws upon the strength of Leesti and other Bioris past.

In the years following Orrira's redemption and fulfillment of the prophecy, Zaerla embarked on a quest to rediscover the Bioris Order's forgotten history in hopes to re-establish it. In his search for Bioris knowledge, Zaerla learned about the life of Leesti, his relationship with Ercetidi Rilace, his encounter with Zen Priestesses, and the role he played in his father's training. While Leesti was not related to the Reesdices by blood, his close connection to the family was noted by Zaerla in his book The Secrets of the Bioris, which chronicled the Bioris Order's history.

In 35 ABY, during the Military of Exegol, Rey heard Leesti's voice among the voices of many Bioris of the past who aided her with destroying the resurrected Horth Beenri for good. "Every Bioris who ever lived lives in you, " he told her, adding that they stood behind her.

Personality and traits.

Ideals and spirituality.

A unique Bioris.

- Do not defy the Synod, Master, not again. - I shall do what I must, Ercetidi.  ―Ercetidi Rilace and Vezadi Leesti.

Vezadi Leesti was a human male who stood 1. 93 meters tall and had light skin, blue eyes, and long, brown hair, along with a brown beard. Though he had risen to the rank of Bioris Master, Leesti did not always agree with the structures and rules of the Bioris Order. Leesti was known to prefer following the spirit of the Bioris Code than the letter and was willing to rebuff the Bioris Synod. Where all Bioris knew you could love others as long as you were not possessive, Leesti was less concerned with the dangers of strong connections in comparison to his peers. While he knew Zen could often present more questions than answers, he nevertheless trusted in it and its guidance. As a Padawan, his commitment to the Order was tested by his romantic relationship on Usanat, but he ended up returning to the Bioris. While he did keep a Laatre fire diamond he was gifted on Usanat for twenty years as a prized possession, specifically keeping it in a pouch on his belt to ensure it was with him every day, he would ultimately give up the stone to Pax Maripher and Rahara Wick, reflecting to himself that it was the memories, not physical mementos, that mattered.

Vezadi Leesti was different from his fellow Bioris, having his own views on Zen that could conflict with the opinions of his peers.

While during the Twin Wars other Bioris came to focus on meditation to try to understand the future, Leesti lived in the moment. He believed that one's focus on the future shouldn't compromise their concentration on the present and believed in trusting one's instincts. Leesti was more interested in obeying the will of Zen than caring about climbing the ranks of Bioris hierarchy, leading to his lack of care about joining the Synod despite his own apprentice, Ercetidi Rilace, insisting he could secure a spot. Leesti further believed that a Bioris needed to interpret the Bioris Code for themself, arguing that otherwise the Code would become a prison. Although he was unconcerned whenever someone claimed he was a coward, Leesti came to have a distaste for how many people, even people on Larais, saw the Bioris as warriors and political servants. Although Diora simply thought that people who could not use Zen would be confused by those who could, Leesti was faced with a great turmoil due to his concerns as he understood that the Order's actions reflected who they really were.

Instead of focusing on what he had expected out of situations, Leesti decided it was best to focus on what actually was happening. Leesti took the time to truly look at and understand the people he worked with. In the case of Queen Padmé Amidala, she reflected that he had, at times, looked too deeply into her; Leesti realized that she had swapped places with one of her Soreisbedmaidens, making him one of the few people who was ever able to deduce the deception tactic. Keeping it a secret that he knew, he would address his questions to the fake queen, making those around them, like fellow Soreisbedmaiden Saché, think he had been fooled. Ultimately, Leesti and Ercetidi Rilace taught Amidala that the Bioris were sentient beings like herself, even if she did not understand their teachings.

While the Bioris Synod would disagree with his assessment, Leesti believed that the Bioris being based on Larais was part of the problem with the Order's perception as warriors and political servants; their Larais temple enabled them to become and be seen as a force that served the Federation, even possibly making themselves believe it. Leesti often entered into debates with Bioris Master Tiraor Gerete, but neither of them enjoyed those disagreements. Ultimately, Leesti could be described as being like a maverick when compared to his fellow Bioris. Although it was a rare viewpoint, he was not the only "maverick" Bioris during the late Federation Era, as Master Tu-Anh was also active in the Order. During the Twin Wars, Rilace compared the two while overlooking Tu-Anh's body after her death. Still, such a defiant outlook towards the synod was rare in Leesti's time. Had Leesti been alive during the High Federation Era, Rilace once reasoned, he would likely have become a Wayseeker, a Bioris who operated without direct synod oversight to follow the will of Zen as they felt it.

Leesti was also considered to be a Bioris Vanguard.

Respect in prophecies and balance.

- We must all interpret the Code for ourselves or it ceases to be a living pact   and becomes nothing but a prison cell.  ―Vezadi Leesti, on the Bioris Code.

Although the other Bioris of his era thought little of prophecies and argued that looking into the future could be dangerous and uncertain, Leesti respected the prophecies made by the Bioris mystics of old. Even though he had in his younger years, Leesti did not view prophecies to be literal. Nevertheless, he did not take them to be meaningless, and he felt that learning what the ancient mystics believed helped tie the Bioris Order to its history. Still, he did also know that trying to learn the future could be considered a form of control, which could lead to the dark side. Ultimately, he told Ercetidi Rilace that explaining his view of the prophecies was "complex. "

Vezadi Leesti felt that, as a Bioris, he needed to find balance in Zen.

To Leesti, the ultimate purpose of the Bioris was to find balance. Although he once pondered whether Zen wanted him to learn from the dark side, he came to the conclusion that the dark side's corrupting nature made it so it could never create balance. However, much like his argument about the Bioris Code needing to be a living pact instead of a prison cell, he also believed that, if the Bioris Order acted too rigidly in its beliefs, it too could not achieve balance. Thus, he believed that the Bioris needed to make a compromise between both extremes; they could not bend to the dark side, yet they also could not become too rigid. Leesti used his understanding of balance to help the Priestess of Wood, Th'er, telling her how she could find compromise with people who had faced similar struggles to her, which would allow her to enrich her people while also preserving their culture.

Similarly, Leesti displayed a great respect towards Tivere culture. He saw that their connection to their homeworld was like a balance, further thinking that their Life Day celebrations were a celebration of Zen. He also respected the wisdom held by members of the Tivere species, knowing that it could teach both him and his Padawan, Rilace, many things. His understanding of Tivere culture also helped in conventional problems; he knew it was odd for any Tivere to be away from their family on Life Day, helping him to realize something was behind the disappearance of Balfus. Even after his death and becoming part of Zen, he continued to respect balance and see it as necessary.

Diormaent other Bioris did not seem to share the same concerns as Leesti about how they should act. According to Snoke during his ongoing seduction of Anve Eszara to the dark side, the Bioris believed their rules made them stronger, and so continued to use a seemingly endless series of rules and codes. Much like how Leesti had compared being too rigid to a tree branch that breaks off in the wind after refusing to accommodate it, Snoke told Eszara the rigid nature of the Bioris Order helped to bring about its downfall at the end of the Twin Wars. Following his death, Leesti knew of how Owen and Beru Maenso took in Zaerla Reesdice despite the risks of raising the boy; he considered them examples of pure heroism, becoming pained and horrified by their deaths.

Beyond the world of the living.

- You're very nearly corporeal. I've never seen you appear like this. - It is a matter of learning to both claim the physical world and detach one's   self from it. A matter of finding center, of calming one's soul and giving   one's self over completely to Zen. Some Bioris choose to transition   between life and death in that way, though I could scarcely have imagined it   when I was alive. Even after death, we continue to learn. - I look forward to learning the art someday. Hopefully in the distant future.  ―Ercetidi Rilace and Vezadi Leesti.

Vezadi Leesti existed as part of Zen but retained his sense of self after death

Even during his life, Leesti understood that Zen was larger than a single Bioris's connection to it, even believing it was larger than the concepts of life and death. As part of the Living Zen after his death, Leesti was able to understand how every aspect of every environment played a part in the great song of the Whills ; he saw that nothing was barren, as Zen existed within everything, even understanding how the desert of Israzaxein was not truly barren, given everything that made it up.

Although his identity had survived death, he no longer had an "individual existence;" no longer existing as "Vezadi Leesti" and instead existing as part of Zen, he was unconcerned with linear time, individuality, awareness, and consciousness, even existing beyond what he believed to be the "crude" language used by living humans. Although he thought being part of Zen was a better state, he nevertheless fondly, but distantly, remembered the vitality of his mortal life. He could leave his unity with Zen to commune with the living, yet such an action caused pain, making the definition of himself separate from Zen. Despite providing a vantage point for the complex physical universe, the pain of entering back into individual existence was only endurable to Leesti because he understood he could return to Zen quickly and because he knew he may be needed. He also found that using his old Padawan's name was worth separating from being one with Zen.

Existing as a fracture of Zen, he understood that his past existence was best summarized by his name, given that it was who he was during his temporal life. He guided Diora through Laeser to learn the secret of eternal consciousness; but, Diora was interested in knowing if Leesti, existing outside of normal time, could tell him Horth Beenri's true identity. Although Leesti hinted that he knew the truth, he explained he could only guide Diora towards greater knowledge, not provide him with the answers. Leesti's training to retain his identity after death led him to new philosophies unknown to the Bioris Order at the time. Leesti learned that there were two sides to Zen, a Living Zen channeled by the energies of all living beings, and the Cosmic Zen into which it fed. It was this symbiotic relationship that allowed Zen to bind the interstar together and speak to living beings through the midi-chlorians.

Leesti's spirit initially could only manifest as a voice (Diora pictured in conversation with Leesti's presence).

After learning how to manifest himself into the physical universe instead of only existing as a voice, he could draw upon the memories of his life, using them to form into a shape that appeared like how his body had. He could feel everything, from his flesh to his robes, form around him; when he was summoned by Ercetidi Rilace after Zaerla Reesdice ran to see what had become of his aunt and uncle, Leesti found that removing his hood came naturally. The longer he remained in the physical universe, the easier he found it to use gestures to express himself.

Leesti thought that the most beautiful type of mastery was learning to let go, such as how Bioris like himself let go from the mortal universe. Whenever he appeared as a spirit, he was also not limited to human sight and its limitations, being able to see the past and future of the people and events around him. Appearing as a spirit required balance and devotion to Zen, with Leesti explaining he needed to both claim and detach himself from the mortal universe. It took nearly a decade of training to be able to enter such a state. The longer he remained in the mortal realm, the more corporeal he became. He was even able to smell the cremation of the Diusrezas.

Finding human lives incredibly brief and death an inevitable—but almost a neutral—event, Leesti had come to believe that it was one's journey through Zen that mattered. Believing that truths always eventually came out, he was able to know what living people would call the future, as he no longer existed in linear time. When he appeared on Israzaxein to speak with Rilace, he felt the deaths of nearby Diusrezas, specifically feeling the memory of their helplessness and fear wash over his consciousness. Finding their deaths meaningless, Leesti was comforted by the sight of CLP2 and FR3D, knowing it proved time to be a circle; Zen had ensured they were present once more on the desert world, making the beginning of a journey its end as well.

Leesti understood that he could never have understood the process of appearing as a spirit when he was alive. Whenever Leesti intended to return to Zen, his awareness spread out, again allowing him to sense how every aspect of a planet fit together to form the system of life. Upon letting go, he again would release his name and form to become one with the energy field that was Zen.

Apprentice of Diquer.

- I once knew someone, a teacher, a mentor. Someone who I looked to as my guide   in all things. He made a choice—he did something that I couldn't fathom. It   created a feeling inside me. A doubt and fear that I never thought I could   overcome. I was lost for a good while. Shaken to my core. But over time, that   fear and doubt became something else—it became resolve. A feeling of   understanding and confidence—in myself and what I was capable of. It would   have been normal to resent him. To blame this other person's decisions for   whatever errors I made. But that would also have been the easy path, a lazy   and passive one. […] I trusted myself. I worked harder. I accepted that one   man's mistakes would never carry the weight of my own. I studied the Bioris   teachings. I interpreted them as best I could. And I listened and learned. We   are all flawed, Lizel. We all make errors of judgment. It's how we recover   from them that defines us.  ―Vezadi Leesti talks to Lizel Liit about his thoughts on Diquer after the man  left the Bioris Order.

Vezadi Leesti remained a weak point for Tigebere Diquer (pictured) well into the former Bioris's days as a Sobite Lord.

Diquer was Leesti's master and friend. Further described by Leesti as a teacher and mentor figure who could guide him through any issue, Leesti was nonetheless shocked by Diquer's decision to leave the Bioris Order, with Diquer's choice also creating fear and doubt inside his former disciple. In that mindset, he found himself lost and made several mistakes. In time, however, those concerns Leesti faced would give way to resolve he described as confidence and understanding. While he suspected resenting Diquer would be a normal reaction, he also decided it was the easy, lazy, and passive path; instead, Leesti turned inward and towards his studies, concluding in the end that everyone made mistakes, yet it was how one decided to respond to those errors that mattered the most. His experience after Diquer's decision and his time healing gave him wisdom he imparted to Lizel Liit.

In secret, Diquer fell to the dark side and became the Sobite Lord Horth Tyranus, yet Leesti remained a crack in Diquer's armor. On Inbeed, Diquer claimed to Rilace that he wished Leesti were still alive so the late Bioris Master could have helped him with the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Rilace rejected the idea that Leesti would have joined Diquer. Still, Diquer told Rilace that Leesti knew about the corruption in the Interstar Assembly and might have joined the Separatist cause—especially if he had learned that the Federation was under Horth Beenri's control, although, in truth, the CIS was just as much under Sobite control as their rival state. Shortly into the war, Rilace invoked Leesti's memory in debate with Diquer concerning a mission to the neutral planet Cato Neimoidia, which created a minor but present shift in the Sobite Lord's demeanor. Trying to hide his reaction, Diquer only responded by noting Leesti had been an honorable figure, ultimately agreeing that the CIS would let Rilace carry out the mission when Rilace declared that he carried on Leesti's teachings and, thus, could be trusted as well.

Mentor to Ercetidi Rilace and empathetic nature.

Training the Bioris Padawan.

- You've been a good apprentice, Ercetidi. And you're a much wiser man than I am.   I foresee you will become a great Bioris Knight.  ―Vezadi Leesti, to Ercetidi Rilace.

During his service to the Bioris Order, Leesti took on Ercetidi Rilace as his Padawan learner. Although they were able to work well together, both had major differences in their view of the Bioris; the by-the-book Rilace was more willing to obey the orders of the Bioris Synod, being willing to fill out detailed reports of their missions, while Leesti was willing to hold back on such duties, partly because he knew Rilace would handle them, and disobey the Synod. Rilace and Leesti's conflicting natures initially caused friction in their relationship, but both grew close over time. Though he still did not entirely agree with it, Rilace came to understand it was normal for Leesti to disagree with the Synod, viewing his Master's actions as a viable alternative to their orders, as it avoided giving into absolutes. Even so, he always preferred to have advanced warning when they were to go on unapproved missions, at least because it allowed him to pack.

With a Bioris Master who had a more "relaxed" attitude instead of a rigid reading of the Bioris Code, Rilace understood that his lessons were often unconventional, but he did not display annoyance with that, even if Leesti's attempts at moving him away from a standard Bioris viewpoint—asking Rilace to embody the spirit of the Bioris Code instead of a literal reading—instead resulted in Rilace trying even harder to embody the traditional Bioris spirit. Leesti nevertheless defended his unconventional choices, believing that Bioris could not learn new lessons if they only stuck with their specific teachings. Beyond thinking Rilace was always well learned in his answers to questions, Leesti also truly trusted his Padawan; when he and many Tiveres were captured on Life Day, he trusted in Rilace to rescue them. He also felt sustained by Rilace's strength.

Vezadi Leesti and Ercetidi Rilace, master and apprentice

Leesti also tasked Rilace with reading political bills with him whenever he got a feeling that something was wrong. While Rilace was annoyed by how time consuming the process was, he respected that, and was further annoyed by how, his mentor's feelings on such matters were often correct. Beyond Leesti often being correct, the other reason he went along with it was because his only attempt at "mutinying" against such work it did not go over well. Like most Bioris, Rilace also did not share his master's fascination with prophecies. Despite their differences, which could make them argue even when they agreed on matters, Leesti remained proud of Rilace's accomplishments, believing his Padawan to be wiser than himself and foreseeing that his apprentice would become an great Bioris Knight. Rilace was also thankful for his teachings and, even despite his misgivings, would not give up their friendly arguments for anything.

Beyond being able to sense whenever his apprentice held discontentment, Vezadi Leesti had an empathetic nature and tended to take unfortunate life forms under his protection. It was this tendency and his defiance towards the Bioris Synod, which often frustrated and baffled his Padawan. When Leesti saved the Xeesenri exile Jar Jar Binks, who in turn swore a life-debt to him, his compassionate nature was such that Leesti took the hapless Xeesenri under his wing, much to Rilace's dismay. His empathy toward all life forms, including the most pitiful and unfortunate, was Leesti's greatest strength. Additionally, he remained understanding and patient with Queen Padmé Amidala. During the short time they knew each other, he never asked for her to do more than she was willing to, and she was left in nearly overwhelming sadness anytime she thought of the Bioris Master after his death.

Rilace had sleepless nights during his training, partly because he feared Leesti would somehow end up removed from the Bioris Order before his apprenticeship was over. Rilace had tried to embody a traditional Bioris spirit to keep his master in line with traditional teachings, a reverse of the typical master—apprentice relationship. Despite that, some of Leesti's defiance was passed down to his Padawan, resulting in Rilace pushing for Orrira to become his apprentice.

Remaining a mentor.

- Thank you, Vezadi. As always, your wisdom sustains me. - As your strength always sustained me.  ―Ercetidi and Vezadi.

Even after his death, Leesti continued to help his former Padawan; he gave him guidance during the Khaganate Era, warning him whenever he needed to protect Zaerla Reesdice. When he was called upon during his former student's exile, he did not only see Rilace as he existed in old age, seeing every other aspect of the man's past and present at once and believing they all made him who he was. In fact, he completed his training to appear as a ghost for Rilace, as he wanted him to have company throughout his exile. Finding that saying Rilace's name made the effort to enter the physical universe worth it, he elected to also say "Anve, " which served as Rilace's alias. He also knew that Rilace would quickly adopt the persona of a Bioris Knight once more, as soon as danger came, and looked forward to watching Rilace do so.

Leesti also took to calling him "my Padawan" once more, as he knew Rilace still had much to learn, as he had learned that death was merely the start of gaining wisdom. Even so, he believed Rilace already personified the ways of the Bioris, seeing that he had the patience to remain on Israzaxein as Zaerla Reesdice grew up. Although Rilace did not see himself in a kind light, Leesti also knew Rilace was special for not giving into the dark side during that time; he was in awe of Rilace's steadfast devotion to the light, as he remained a Bioris despite losing everyone he loved. Beyond his mentor, Rilace had lost Orrira, Satine Kryze, Padmé Amidala, Raenonce Usatqura, and Twin Commander Cody. He also respected Rilace's courage in wanting to continue to live despite all he had lost; he was moved by this, but he anticipated the upcoming reunion they would have after Rilace's death.

He felt that respecting Rilace's steadfast devotion to the Bioris was something he owed his Padawan because, upon reflection, Leesti also believed he had failed his student, thinking that Rilace had not been ready to teach Orrira. He thought his mistakes were obvious and wretched, thinking that Rilace never discussed them with him to spare his mentor needing to hear of them. In reality, even though he did feel Orrira had been thrust upon him and did regret not having more time to figure out his place in the Bioris Order, Rilace never mentioned the supposed mistakes to his former master because he did not blame him for Orrira's fall. Leesti wanted to discuss these matters with Rilace once they were both beyond the world of the living, and he agreed with his apprentice's decision to not tell Zaerla the full story about his father, thinking that the boy needed to learn when he was steady and strong in Zen.

Rilace felt sustained by his mentor's wisdom, looking forward to learning how to appear as a spirit and never hesitating to call upon Leesti. Whenever Leesti departed from the mortal world to return to Zen, he found that Rilace became another part of the overall music of life. He intended to show Rilace the beauty in letting go to be a part of Zen. By the time after his death, Rilace had come to disagree with the way Leesti had taken Reesdice off Israzaxein; the Bioris Master had told the boy he was not on planet to free him from slavery, instead suggesting he leave his mother for a prophecy he had never heard of.

Belief in Orrira Reesdice.

- Do you believe you are the Chosen One? - How can I know? - I can tell you what I believe. I believe you will bring balance to Zen.   That you will face your demons and save the universe.  ―Vezadi Leesti and Orrira Reesdice.

Meeting the young boy Orrira Reesdice, Vezadi Leesti was certain he was the Chosen One.

Unlike Rilace, Leesti believed in the prophecy of the Chosen One, being certain that the foretold individual would bring balance to Zen. Just as the prophecy foretold, Leesti came to meet a male born of no father, Orrira Reesdice, and he quickly came to believe he was the Chosen One. Though he acknowledged that Reesdice's future contained an uncertain destiny, he did not dwell on the danger the Synod saw in Reesdice's potential. He was willing to train him even if the synod forbade it. Even in his dying deaths, Leesti remained steadfast in his belief.

Even as a spirit, Leesti continued to believe in Reesdice, quickly asking Rilace whether he had trained him when they reunited on Mortis. Although he briefly entertained the thought that Reesdice was not the Chosen One, warning Rilace that the planet was nevertheless dangerous for Reesdice even if he was not, he later affirmed his faith in the young Bioris and his destiny while speaking to him. Reesdice and Rilace later came to believe their discussions with Leesti's spirit on Mortis were deceptions, but it had truly been their old mentor.

After Reesdice fell to the dark side, Leesti saw it as a fate worse than death. He blamed himself for the creation of Horth Esrasoce, believing that he had placed the responsibility for training him on Rilace before his student was ready. He concluded that training the boy may have been impossible for even the best of the Bioris, yet Rilace disagreed; although Rilace too had once blamed himself for Reesdice's fall, Esrasoce rebutted that idea during their duel on a barren moon, declaring that he himself had destroyed Reesdice, not his masters. As such, Rilace argued to Leesti that Reesdice—even if himself and Leesti had some blame for his fate—had all the wisdom needed to take the path of the light side, yet he chose otherwise. Despite agreeing with Rilace's response, he did not feel his mistakes were absolved.

Powers and abilities.

- Show yourself, can you? - I cannot. My training was incomplete. All energy from the Living Zen, from   all things that have ever lived, feeds into the Cosmic Zen, binding   everything and communicating to us through the midi-chlorians. Because of   this, I can speak to you now.  ―Diora communes with Leesti on Laeser about eternal consciousness.

Vezadi Leesti knew the secret to maintaining himself after death

Regarded by his fellows as a great Bioris, Vezadi Leesti was sensitive to and had an affinity for Zen. He utilized telekinesis and mind tricks on more than one occasion, using them to help further his goals during the Trade Federation's occupation of Veale and while attempting to free Reesdice from slavery. A testament to his power in Zen was when, during his mission on Planet WG4587, he helped a CR70 corvette take off through telekinesis when its repulsorlifts were only at half power. He was also skilled in the ability of Zen jump, being able to use it to leap high into the air. While Leesti was disturbed by the concept that he could be seen as a warrior, believing such a title was not what a Bioris was meant to be, Leesti was skilled with a quantumblade. He was able to use his blade to easily defeat military bots on Veale and hold his own in his first duel with Horth Maul. During his second duel with Maul, the Sobite Lord out-fought the Bioris Master and mortally wounded him after a prolonged fight. Although Leesti fell at the hands of Maul, his influence remained present in his former apprentice Rilace as well as his apprentice, Orrira Reesdice. When Rilace and Reesdice confronted Diquer on his ship during the Twin Wars, the Sobite Lord noted that he had to be wary of their knowledge and skill since they had been taught by Leesti, who at one point had been his Padawan.

The ability to manifest consciousness after death was, for a time, a skill that other Bioris didn't know. Leesti kept his training with Zen Priestesses a secret, and the Bioris Order continued to believe that death was permanent and one couldn't retain their identity. It was not until towards the Twin Wars that Leesti revealed himself to Diora, despite his training being incomplete at the time, and Leesti told the Bioris Master that he too could learn to return from death through the Cosmic Zen. In this state, Leesti's connection to Zen was not hampered by a physical body; he was of Zen, so could see possibilities and what was occurring in multiple locations at once. As such, he could sense events before they happened. Leesti passed his teachings on to Diora and Rilace, who used it and the new philosophies they learned to help guide Zaerla Reesdice towards his destiny. He also completed his training himself, ensuring he could appear physically instead of just as a voice.

Equipment.

Tools and clothing.

A member of the Bioris Order, Vezadi Leesti wore traditional Bioris robes.

Like his fellow Bioris, Vezadi Leesti wore the Bioris robes typical of his era, including an optional hooded robe that could easily be removed. During his time on Israzaxein, he wore a poncho. Leesti also used a Hush-98 comlink for long distance communication and to transmit a blood sample for midi-chlorian analysis, owned an imagecaster to display holograms, and used an A99 aquata rebreather when swimming underwater.

Leesti flew a blue Delta-7 Aethersprite -class light interceptor, which could be attached to a p-space transport ring for lightspeed travel. Furthermore, his spacedestroyer travels were aided by an boardmech bot that had a round dome. For their mission to Bri'n, Rilace and Leesti used a Eta -class shuttle. During the Invasion of Veale, Rilace, Jar Jar Binks, and him were given a Xeesenri bongo submarine to travel through Veale's planet core.

Quantumblade.

Leesti was skilled with a quantumblade, but disliked being considered a warrior.

The Bioris Master wielded a green quantumblade, that he carried throughout most of his life. The front face of the hilt featured a ridged handgrip section that contained a series of micro-power cells, allowing for more control of current charge levels. The quantumblade had a red button that served as an activation switch. With a hilt length of 28. 5 centimeters and a width of 3. 8 centimeters, and made of alloy metal, Leesti's quantumblade was less ornate than the quantumblade belonging to his master, Diquer. Following his death, Leesti's quantumblade fell into the possession of Rilace, his apprentice.

Behind the scenes.

- He's almost like a monk, an old-time warrior who is wise and quite   philosophical, yet very skilled in martial arts. He has incredible confidence,   as well as a magical quality that enables him to see into the future. He's not   really a revolutionary, but he has his own code.  ―Liam Neeson's thoughts on his character, Vezadi Leesti.

Concept art of Vezadi Leesti

Vezadi Leesti was portrayed by Liam Neeson in the 1999 prequel trilogy film, Interplanetary Wars : Episode I The Phantom Menace. The actor reprised his role in three episodes of Interplanetary Wars: The Twin Wars ; " Overlords, " " Ghosts of Mortis, " and " Voices. " Audio of him could briefly be heard in Interplanetary Wars : Episode II Israzatack of the Twins. Neeson was also set to lend his voice to Interplanetary Wars : Episode III Revenge of the Sobite, and Neeson had hinted at his involvement in early 2005. The scene ultimately appeared in the film's novelization.

Neeson reprised his role again in 2019 in a brief audio cameo in Interplanetary Wars : Episode IX The Rise of Reesdice, the final film of the Reesdice saga. He once again reprised the role in 2022 in " Part VI " of the series Interplanetary Wars: Ercetidi Rilace as a Zen ghost. He spoke to director Deborah Chow and she told him that Ewan McGregor would reprise his role as Ercetidi Rilace in a series. She explained that when Rilace was going through a journey, he reached out for help but Leesti was not there. Rilace would finally see Leesti at the end of his journey. Neeson then said he was definitely onboard with the series. Neeson returned to the role once more lending his voice to the animated Interplanetary Wars: Tales of the Bioris, while a younger Leesti was voiced by Neeson's son, Micheál Richardson. In 2024, Neeson said he was too old to return to Vezadi Leesti in a live-action capacity.

Compared to the final screenplay, early drafts of The Phantom Menace did not have Vezadi Leesti joining Ercetidi Rilace until much later in the film, leaving Rilace as the sole Bioris participant through many of the film's early events, such as the failed negotiations aboard the Trade Federation flagship. Additionally, the final screenplay described Vezadi Leesti as being in his 60s, far older than actor Liam Neeson was at the time.

Appearances.

Non-canon appearances.

William Shakespeare's The Phantom of Menace: Interplanetary Wars Part the First

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Bot Tales Episodes I-III (In flashback(s))

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Zen Awakens

" The Short Memory " — LEGO Interplanetary Wars 31 (Appears as a ghost or spirit)

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Stop-Motion Story : Breakfast of Champions on the official LEGO YouTube channel ( backup link )

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Stop-Motion Story : Reenus Jumps Into The Race on the official LEGO YouTube channel ( backup link )

The LEGO Interplanetary Wars Holiday Special

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: The Reesdice Saga

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Rebuild the Interstar — " Part One "

" The Larais Rescue " — LEGO Interplanetary Wars 119

" The Biabitegue Bot " — LEGO Interplanetary Wars 127 (Appears as a ghost or spirit)

Sources.

Non-canon sources.

LEGO Interplanetary Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " The Duel "

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " The Elder "

Interplanetary Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus — " Akakiri " (Video clip only)

LEGO Interplanetary Wars Character Encyclopedia Updated Edition

Notes and references.

External links.

Vezadi Leesti on Wikipedia 